There's downside risk around labor, but
then you also have to acknowledge that
there's some upside price risk.
>> This oil price shock is another headwind
to the labor market expansion.
>> The Fed will have to increasingly
acknowledge the two-sided risk from
this. For now, the Fed is going to be
cautious.
>> The Fed is going to be on pause. They do
not [music] want to preemptively react.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York [music] City this
morning. Good morning, good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, it's decision day. Fed
chair Jay Powell confronting a major
energy shock in the Middle East as the
industry is searching for workarounds to
get crude flowing once again. Iran is
vowing revenge following the loss of its
security chief. That country isn't
backing down. [music]
>> And frankly, the killing of the national
security chief Ali Larijani, it seems to
only muddy the waters further because he
was believed to be a sort of next
[music] potential real leader that could
coalesce power. If he is not available,
who do they negotiate with? Who is going
to be feasible to really put forward
some sort of solution? And without that
kind of solution, how exactly do you get
oil and other commodities flowing
through the Strait of Hormuz?
>> It's incredibly hard right now to get
all commodities flowing through the
Strait of Hormuz when you have the
Iranians saying basically [music] the
Strait quote won't return to its pre-war
status. We need to design new
arrangements. [music] That's what the
Iranians saying. Their oil's getting
through, but for anyone else that wants
to pass, there's going to be a new
arrangement. And this is the big problem
this White House and Western allies have
right now in the region.
>> Which is why we're holding on to triple
digits on Brent crude once again at
103.40. And that's the problem for the
Fed chair Jay Powell and the committee
later on this afternoon. Not much
[music] has changed. Unemployment the
last time they met, 4.4% unemployment
now 4.4%. The major change, one thing,
the price of crude. Going into the last
meeting, WTI [music] was in the low 60s,
and now it's $30 higher than it was back
then.
>> Yeah, Brent's closed above $100 a barrel
for four straight sessions. [music] And
we haven't really heard from Fed
officials since this war really kicked
off and gained steam, which is notable
given the fact that it's been a quiet
period. So we haven't gotten [music] any
indication about exactly how they're
going to view this. Are they going to
treat it hawkishly? And some people are
worried to the point that you've been
making, is this going to [music] be the
classic central bank mistake where you
see an oil price shock and you hike into
it to curtail growth? Or is there going
to be a sense of patience [music] and a
sense of prioritizing any kind of
weakness they're seeing in the labor
market?
>> A bigger question perhaps for the ECB,
that meeting [music] coming up tomorrow
alongside the Bank of England and the
BOJ. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with [music] Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research with stocks looking to build on
two days of gains. Stephen Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations as more
strikes erupt across the Middle East.
And Neil Dutta of RenMac ahead of the
latest Fed rate decision. We begin this
hour with our top story, Iran firing a
fresh wave of attacks across the Middle
East as supply chains scramble to
reroute crude from the Strait of Hormuz.
Joining us now for more, Bloomberg's
Jamana Botasheva leading our coverage
out of Dubai. Jamana, welcome back to
the program. Let's just start with
energy and the rerouting, the offset,
the attempt that people are making to
try and take away some of the pressure
out of the energy market in the Middle
East.
Yeah, well, at the at the end of the day
you still got oil trading digit triple
digit territory here uh despite the US's
best efforts to ensure the safe passage
of vessels through the Strait of Hormuz.
Uh I thought it was interesting that
yesterday evening the Iranian foreign
minister Abbas Araqchi actually gave an
interview to Al Jazeera where to what
Anne Marie was saying, he was describing
that in future there needs to be a new
protocol. This is the exact word he used
vis-a-vis the safe transiting of ships
throughout the Strait. They they clearly
recognize that they have a lot of
leverage with this choke point uh for
global shipping and for global energy
markets. And it is a point of leverage
that they are not going to back down on.
And if anything, they have been
energized overnight uh post the killing
of Ali Larijani. This was a key
figurehead as we spoke about yesterday
on the show, there's now confirmation
from Iran that he was indeed
assassinated. So, more decapitation
right at the top of the political
structure uh and they have vowed
retaliation for that. And the
retaliation has indeed come overnight
around the same time as they announced
that he had been killed, they launched a
series of attacks once again on Gulf
states. Over here I can tell you in the
UAE, we received multiple missile alerts
on our phones overnight. Uh there was
even damage sustained by an Australian
military base uh overnight, too. Uh the
interception rate continues to be quite
high, but at the end of the day they
continue to target many of the military
bases and even civilian infrastructure
within the UAE. Also, renewed attempts
in Saudi Arabia, the diplomatic quarters
there, they intercepted some missiles on
the eastern oil fields, another
attempted strike on the US Embassy in
Baghdad, and also attempted strikes uh
on on diplomatic areas in Kuwait as
well. So, the backlash continues. And
then also reports out of Tel Aviv that
uh there have been two announced deaths
from uh the strikes that took place
there, too. So, no signs really of
things letting up. It is day 19. The
Iranians continue to retaliate and they
continue to put pressure on that key
choke point for global shipping and
energy markets, and that is the Strait
of Hormuz. And unclear at this point
whether the US can actually get together
the coalition that it needs to ensure
the safe passage of of vessels through
the Strait and whether even that's
feasible technically. Day 19 and no
visible off ramp, Jamana. Always good to
see you. Jamana Botasheva out of Dubai
leading our coverage out of the region.
Just to pick up on that line from the
Iranian foreign minister, Anne Marie, to
go over this again. We need to design
new arrangements for the Strait of
Hormuz and the way ships pass through it
in the future. At the moment, the path
of transit and the flag on the vessel
highly conditional at the moment.
>> Absolutely. Iranian crude is getting
through and 90% of that is going to
China, some Chinese vessels. There have
been also pockets of some Indian vessels
and Pakistani vessels getting through if
they are in advance communicating with
this regime. Not a single Western vessel
is able to get through. And to be
honest, what CEO is going to okay that
given the fact that the Strait is not
safe right now. Now the Iranians are
talking about we own this. They do not
view this as an international body of
water anymore. That is why the Strait is
not closed, it's controlled.
>> Brent crude right now 103.40. Here's the
view on Wall Street this morning. Ed
Yardeni of Yardeni Research writing
sentiment heading south usually
increases the likelihood that we'll get
a good buying opportunity. It's worked
very well for me in the past, but it may
not work now. Ed joins us now for more.
Ed, welcome to the program. That's an
interesting line from you, so let's
build on it. Why is it different this
time?
Well, in the past whenever uh
the bull-bear ratios uh
took took a dive, that was a great
contrary indicator that it was time to
buy. And usually when in the past when
the bull-bear ratio took a dive, it was
because there was some sort of crisis
that there could be a response to by
fiscal and monetary policy, uh trade
policy. In other words, uh
there there were policies that the
government could implement that would
relieve all the concerns, relieve the
crisis. And more often than not, what
we've seen in the past, it was a credit
crunch that spooked the financial
markets. And sure enough, it led to a
recession. And sure enough, it led to
fiscal and monetary stimulus which
reversed the whole situation. So, we we
saw that back in 2009, we made a bottom
uh when the Fed came in. We saw that
with the pandemic when when the Fed came
in. So, we we've got plenty of examples
of the Fed put and the Treasury put and
so on. The problem here is what who's
who's in charge? Who's in control? Who
can respond to this latest Middle East
crisis? And the answer is nobody. It's
kind of ambiguous about how this thing
gets gets resolved. I think the markets
have taken a pretty optimistic view that
uh this isn't going to last very long
and that um
markets will adjust that there will be
oil. And maybe it won't be a 20% cut in
global uh
oil as a result of the Persian Gulf War,
but more like 10%. The conclusion seems
to be, Ed, from the bull case at least,
because we hear it all the time on this
program, is that the earnings profile of
the S&P 500 is still pretty decent. The
tailwinds going into this year are
pretty strong. And that we can withstand
the pressure coming from international
waters, coming from the Middle East. Ed,
do you not think that they can stand up
to those kind of forces?
Well, I I I have been pointing out that
the the market has been amazing
amazingly resilient. I think we all
have. And the the explanation for that
is that
increasing concerns about a possible
recession resulting from all this have
in fact weighed on the forward PE of the
S&P 500. But on the other hand, the the
industry analysts that cover the S&P
500, guess what? They didn't get the
memo that there's a problem in the
Middle East that could depress earnings.
And so, what we're actually saying is
earnings expectations are going up for
this year and certainly for next year.
So, yeah, I think the the analysts are
probably right. This isn't going to last
uh
for for more than a few more weeks. And
if you look out to 2027,
the outlook is is actually pretty
spectacular for earnings for all sorts
of reasons.
How much is the earnings outlook going
forward predicated on the idea of credit
markets remaining open and frankly
relatively easy in terms of financing
conditions?
Well, I I think the the issue here in
terms of
there's there's sort of layers of risk
here.
I wasn't particularly concerned about
the private credit markets. I, you know,
saw like everybody else did that there's
cracks in the in the private credit
markets and and through those cracks
Jamie Dimon
the boss of JP Morgan said, you know,
hey, you can see one cockroach and if
you see one there's probably a lot more
uh behind it and sure enough there've
been more cockroaches in the private
credit market, but I I think it's it's
not
the problem is not the nature of what
happened in 2008. However, if you lay on
top of that
uncertainty about how this war goes and
whether it will in fact create a
stagflationary shock that could come
back to create more cracks and more
cockroaches in the credit markets, then
you got a problem. So, you know,
about a week and a half ago, 2 weeks
ago, I raised my odds of recession or
just all sorts of possible problems from
20% to 35%.
Um and [snorts]
um
market doesn't didn't care. It's it's
held its 200-day moving average. It's
actually actually pretty normally and
look I I I view corrections as buying
opportunities and
the market's not giving us much of a
buying opportunity quite honestly.
And if we do get a hawkish tone from the
Fed today, given what you just talked
about with the response and what
borrowing costs do in the face of what
could potentially be a stagflationary
shock,
could that potentially create some real
downside given the fact that it would
introduce this possibility of more
cracks ahead?
Well, Lisa, you know, you know what I
wish the Fed would do? I wish they would
put out a statement and say, folks,
there's some things that we can't solve.
Monetary policy can't do everything and
this is a
geopolitical shock. We can't do much
about that.
We're going to have inflation
surge here for the next few months.
First we got energy prices up and then
that
we got a shortage of fertilizer, so food
prices could go up. And there's really
not much we can do about that. Raising
interest rates isn't going to make those
problems go away. It will create another
problem, which is an even weaker labor
market. So, I wish they just you know,
not be hawkish or dovish, but be honest
and say, folks, we just you know, this
is a this is a problem created by by
geopolitics.
Fiscal policy hasn't been very helpful
on the inflation front and on the debt
front. And all we can do is leave the
rate right here and see how things
unfold. And that's what you want them to
say. What do you think J Powell's going
to say?
Well,
um I think they might say something kind
of a
a tone-down version of what what I just
said and that you know,
they're going to have to
just wait and and see. They're data
dependent. They have to see how this
this plays out. They they
I guess [clears throat] if they want to
go Volcker on us, they would say, look,
um
we've got a problem here with rising
risk of inflation, rising risk of
unemployment. Eeny meeny miny moe, we we
choose to be more concerned about the
risk of inflation because we don't want
to monetize inflation the way we did in
the 1970s
and then Volcker had to come in and slam
the brakes to get a recession to bring
inflation down. We don't want to go down
that road. So, we're kind of inclined to
to think about the possibility of
raising interest rates, which is
something that the markets nobody really
expected to be
on on the table prior to the war, but
again, I I think they're going to uh
just say we're we're going to keep the
pause going for a while. Well, shout out
definitely ain't Volcker. Ed Yardeni,
thank you. Ed Yardeni Ed Yardeni
Research. This man has missed his
inflation target every year since the
pandemic. I don't think that's going to
change anytime soon. It's been more than
5 years. It would be interesting if
suddenly it mattered that much more at
this moment. That said, there is a
specter of discomfort that you're
feeling across Wall Street where this
dip doesn't feel like enough of a dip to
offset all of the concerns that J Powell
has to respond to whether or not he's
there in a couple months time.
>> That decision this afternoon, 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohana has more. Hi
Yohana. Good morning, John. Iran vowing
revenge for the killing of one of its
top leaders. Iranian state media
confirming [music] that Ali Larijani was
killed in an Israeli airstrike on
Tuesday. He was the most senior Iranian
official to be killed since Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei on the first [music]
day of the war.
Meanwhile, Brent prices eased earlier,
but have turned higher again. It pulled
back after Iraq signed a deal with
Turkey to resume oil [music] exports
through their territory, allowing it to
avoid the Straits of Hormuz. Iraq will
relaunch a pipeline known as the
Iraq-Turkey pipeline connecting Kirkuk
to Turkey's Ceyhan port.
And Japan's Prime Minister Sanae
Takaichi warning she's facing a quote
extremely difficult meeting with
President Donald Trump tomorrow. Her
comments coming after President Trump
criticized Japan for rebuffing his
demand for warships [music] to help
secure the Strait of Hormuz. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohana, thank
you. More from Yohana later on this
morning. [music] Up next on the program,
going it alone in the Gulf.
We don't need too much help. We don't
need any help actually. In fact, we just
put out a notice. So, this is a this was
a great test cuz we don't need them, but
they should have been there. Up next
we'll catch up with Steven Cook of the
Council
>> [music]
>> on Foreign Relations live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Back-to-back gains on the S&P 500, the
first 2-day winning streak on the S&P
since this war started. For the month of
March, equities add to those gains up by
0.5%
on the S&P and the Nasdaq up by 0.7.
Brent and WTI shaping up as follows.
Brent crude holding above triple digits,
103.40
and just about unchanged on the session
so far. Unique yesterday, the crude
still inching higher and equities did
okay. It seemed like it was a volatility
in crude that was more important than
[music] necessarily the absolute level.
We've survived a $100 barrel before in
the United States. We saw that on
average from 2011 to 2014 around that
level. The fact that you could get some
calm is enough for people to say, maybe
[music] it's a buying opportunity.
>> of relative calm so far this morning.
WTI 94.71. [music] Under Savannah's this
morning, going it alone in the Gulf.
We don't need too much help. We don't
need any help actually. In fact, we just
put out a notice. I was uh
watching over the last couple of weeks
and
all of our NATO allies were very much in
favor of what we did. So, uh
I think NATO's making a very foolish
mistake. So, this is a this was a great
test cuz we don't need them, but they
should have been there. So, here's the
latest this morning. The President
slamming NATO allies after failing to
get their support for a coalition to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. The
President saying the war will end in the
very near future while threatening more
attacks on Iran's oil-rich Kharg Island.
Bloomberg's Dana Chandler joins us from
the White House for more. Good morning,
Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump appears to be abandoning his call
for allies to help secure the Strait of
Hormuz after many appeared wary of his
demands to send naval escorts. When
asked directly whether any countries are
going to send assets to the Strait, I
think it's fair to say President Trump
sidestepped the question and said
touting bilateral relations between the
US and countries in the Middle East
before going on to say how disappointed
he is in the NATO alliance. In fact,
it's really highlighting what's been
and politics, but also this concern that
the White House could disengage when it
comes to the conflict with Ukraine if
they don't engage when it comes to the
conflict in Iran. In fact, yesterday
President Trump multiple times brought
up unprompted the conflict in Ukraine at
one time saying, quote, we've helped
them in Ukraine and they won't help us
in Iran. Comes after news yesterday the
French President Macron confirmed that
his country will not be sending assets
to the Strait of Hormuz, but says that
France remains ready once the situation
is calmer. It appears a ceasefire is
going to need to be in place in order
for this coalition to be formed as many
allies have said that they're not a
party to this conflict and NATO in
particular is a defensive alliance, but
John, as you all know, of course,
President Trump's call has extended
beyond NATO countries to China, to Japan
as we get ready for tomorrow when
Japanese Prime Minister Takaichi is
expected here at the White House. This
trip was planned well before the
conflict in Iran started and comes as
big oil refiners in Asia starts to look
to import crude from elsewhere outside
of the Middle East as it seems that
disruptions show no sign of slowing. And
that meeting could be awkward heading
into the weekend. Dana, thank you. Dana
Chandler with the latest from outside
the White House. Steven Cook of the of
the Council on Foreign Relations writes
in the US still does not seem to have an
answer for the Strait of Hormuz. What
seems to be shaping up with a full-on
military effort to open it will take
weeks. Steven joins us now for more.
Steven, welcome to the program. Let's
take a step back and talk about the
operations goals. They've been through
this a few times. Take out any potential
nuclear capabilities, missiles, the
navy, the industrial base that underpins
it. How much progress have we made and
what phase of this operation are we now
in?
It's a great question and when you talk
to military professionals and
professional military analysts, they
will tell you that despite all of the
noise and sort of doom and gloom that
you get in Washington over a situation
like the Strait of Hormuz, the United
States has made a fair amount of
progress in degrading Iran's military
capabilities, and which will have a
lasting effect on Iran's ability to
protect its to project its power. The
problem remains that there is still a
drone and missile threat to America's
partners in the region. Um just
yesterday uh the Israelis took a fair
amount of fire in response to the
killing of Ali Larajani. Uh and
uh after a lull of Gulf states were
getting hit as well. So, um there are
still um threats out there from the
Iranians. Um there is a timeline, the
military has a timeline, the Israelis
have a timeline. It is 4 to 6 weeks for
them to get through uh their target list
and all the goals that they'd like to
achieve. Yet, the president is out there
once again saying that this could end
very soon. Well, Steven Cook, last night
CENTCOM employed 5,000-lb
deep munition bombs on the coast. At the
same time, we have the USS Tripoli,
which is an amphibious Navy uh ship with
tons of Marines heading to the region.
What do you think the president plans to
use this group of individuals for?
Well, part of what's shaping up is that
the president threatens military force
or actually uses military force in an
effort to intimidate the Iranians. Thus
far, the Iranians have not been
intimidated. So, uh this movement of uh
US Marines to the region may be in fact
part of this effort to intimidate the
Iranians. But, they can be used to
capture Kharg Island or to capture the
shoreline um along the straight Iran's
shoreline along the Strait of Hormuz.
That is something that has become more
openly discussed in recent days as the
Strait of Hormuz has become more and
more of a problem for the United States.
If the United States were to capture
Kharg Island, what would that mean for
the regime? Because that basically cuts
off their entire economy now.
Yeah, and the Kharg Island is obviously
a lifeline for Iran. Um Iran has a
bigger economy, it's not just an
oil-based economy. But, with the
Emiratis moving or at least discussing
the possibility of cutting off all of
Iran's assets in Emirati financial
institutions, and then if the United
States were to take Kharg Island, um you
would uh really cut off uh the regime.
The problem with that is of course is
that the Iranians would be expected to
retaliate not just uh to uh
try to push the American presence from
Kharg Island, but would clearly try to
attack oil infrastructure, production
facilities, storage facilities, refining
facilities, export facilities throughout
the Middle East, which would extend
the crisis and and raise the prospect of
a prolonged period of elevated levels of
oil and gas at the pump for Americans.
Steven, do you think that NATO is going
to survive this period?
Well, this is uh I think uh a real test,
and uh one has to question I think that
the uh fact that the NATO allies who
were not consulted on this conflict
don't support this conflict and have
resisted the president's uh entreaties
to help ensure the the freedom of
navigation through the Strait of Hormuz
is going to put a lot of pressure on
NATO. It will reinforce the narrative um
of the president, the people around him,
and people who are supporters of Make
America Great Again that the United
States wants partners, but it wants
capable partners. And I think this will
once again um
make the case for uh the president, the
people around him that the Europeans are
not um
uh
strong allies, uh and that you
the that the United States should look
for capable partners outside the
alliance. Steven Cook of the Council on
Foreign Relations. Steven, good to see
you. There's no right answers here.
Obviously, clearly. A really difficult
position to be in. The problem I think
the US has with their allies right now
is that this is something, if the regime
collapses, that all of their allies will
benefit from. But, none of their allies
wants to have anything to do with this,
which is why it's festered for years and
years and years. There's been a complete
realignment of the power dynamics of
global relationships, [music] and Europe
has been on the losing end of this. A
real question of what it looks like on
the other side, and this is really a
catalyst type of moment. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Dan
Pickering of Pickering Energy Partners
on the risk of $125 crude. Plus, Yahaira
has your morning movers, memory stocks
jumping on AI optimism. More [music] on
that in just a moment.
Back to our gains on the S&P 500, adding
to them this morning. We're up by 0.5%
on the S&P, on the Nasdaq up by 0.7.
[music] We'll get to the tech theme in
just a moment with some single names.
But, let's turn to crude because these
[music] gains built up yesterday even
with the crude rally extending. Brent
crude 103.50, just about unchanged on
the session. WTI around 95. And
interestingly yesterday,
>> [music]
>> leading the pack on the S&P 500,
discretionary and energy. Make sense of
that. Okay, that's the stock [music]
market, that's crude. Let's turn to the
bond market. Twos, tens, and 30s going
into the Federal Reserve decision later
on this afternoon, yields [music] back
in a way retreating from the high of the
year, the high range of the year, high
end of the range of the year, 4.30,
those kind of levels up in the upper
4.20s over the last [music] week, but
back down to about 4.18 going into
Chairman Powell later this afternoon.
There still is a sense that there will
be an open door to at least one rate
[music] cut. That's at least is what's
priced into the market. There also is a
reassessment. How many people have come
on this show and said, "Either way, buy
bonds because either the Fed's going to
get this wrong and they're going to keep
rates [music] too high or even hike
them, and that's going to cause a crash,
buy bonds. Or they're not, and the oil
shock's going to be shock's going to be
transient, and essentially it will be
washed out and it will be transitory,
[music]
so buy bonds." And that's essentially
why you're getting this incredible bid
with the 20-year auction yesterday that
was incredibly strong. We've heard that
from Neuberger Berman, we've heard that
from JP Morgan. On this show, we've
heard it from so many others as well.
[music] As we count you down to the
opening bell about 3 hours away, let's
get those single names in that tech
theme. Yahaira has more. Hi, Yahaira.
Hi, John. Well, we start with Alibaba.
Their ADRs are up 3.6% [music] after a
string of AI headlines overnight. First,
the company is consolidating its AI
operations under one roof to drive
faster profits. Plus, it said it is
hiking prices on some of its key AI
services. All of this suggesting strong
demand. [music] Uh plus, a clear path to
monetization, something investors have
been quick to reward since these
companies, these tech names, have been
spending so aggressively on AI, and
investors want to see a return. Uh
meanwhile, take a look at this board.
[music] These are some of the
best-performing stocks this year, and
they're all higher this morning. Micron,
Sandisk, Western [music] Digital, all
higher as they ride this wave of surging
demand for memory chips due to AI. But,
the real test comes later today when
Micron [music] reports after the bell.
And with the stock up nearly 60%
year-to-date, [music] it will be all
about whether it can deliver. And we end
on a mover to the downside, and that is
Lululemon. Shares are down nearly 2% in
[music] the premarket after forecasting
a second straight year of profit
decline. Sales also missed as shoppers
reached for markdown items instead of
full-priced ones, and they did not
deliver
>> [music]
>> the CEO announcement that many were
anticipated so anticipating. So, still
without a permanent leader, John.
Yahaira, thank you. More from Yahaira
later on this morning. Some [music]
comments, some headlines coming from the
Israeli defense minister in the last 20
minutes or so.
They say this, that the Iranian
intelligence minister
>> [music]
>> has been killed. Going on to say that
the IDF has authorized to kill any
senior Iranian official, and the
headlines on that front keep building.
They keep building. This is another
massive blow to the regime this morning.
Yesterday was a huge one with the
security chief, Ali Larajani, an
individual that has touched almost every
part of Iranian society. And now, an
intel the intel chief. Reportedly, the
Iranians are saying the Israelis are
saying that they killed this individual.
This was a close, very close ally of the
former supreme leader, Khamenei. That's
the latest coming from the Israeli side
this morning. On our rundown this
morning, the president blasting NATO
allies after failing to get
international support for opening the
Strait of Hormuz. Trump saying the
countries are making a quote very
foolish mistake, and the US doesn't need
their assistance. Elsewhere, the
president confirming his planned summit
with China's Xi Jinping has been
postponed as the Iran war stretches on.
It looks like it'll take place in about
5 weeks. I look forward to seeing
President Xi. He looks forward to seeing
me, I think. But, I do look forward to
seeing him. We have a good relationship
with China. The president did not
announce a date for the meeting. And
finally, Oaktree's Howard Marks saying
markets are underestimating the true
impacts of AI.
A company called Block, which had 10,000
employees, announced that 4,000 of them
were out.
40% of the workforce gone in one day
because AI could do the work cheaper and
faster. You might recognize the
individual sitting alongside Howard
Marks there. Bramo, Bramo, how was the
conversation? It was actually
fascinating. Number There were three
things that I took away from it. Number
one, no one at that meeting and Howard
Marks was not talking about the war. And
when I asked him offline about the war,
he said, "I've got nothing intelligent
to say about it, and sometimes the most
intelligent thing you can say is I don't
have anything intelligent to say. No one
can predict anything." What everyone's
very much is credit markets, and what
we're seeing in software is this endemic
of something else. He went to say,
"Ultimately, it does feel pretty
complacent right now, even with some of
the kinks that we're seeing in private
credit." He's saying, "How can you game
out the uncertainty of a truly
revolutionary technology that people are
underestimating at this point?" And he
went on to say he'd rather own the
equity than the debt of these companies
because you don't have any upside. You
just get your money back if you're
lending. He doesn't understand the idea
of a 100-year debt to Google. He doesn't
understand the idea of 40-year or
30-year debt. How can we understand
what's going to happen in the next 5
years?
>> That's quite a statement from the legend
of a credit market, right? Which is
basically, I see the opportunity outside
my asset class.
Not only that, but he was talking about
how we haven't seen a credit cycle in a
long time and credit cycles don't die.
And he was talking about incredibly
frothy opportunities, spreads that look
pretty historically tight. And he said
he remains cautious until people start
to really feel fearful. And right now is
not a time of fear. And I think that
that's a really important kind of
reckoning and a reason why people are so
uncomfortable right now with buying the
dip blindly.
>> We've had something similar from Apollo
as well. If you want to watch the full
exchange, available of course on
bloomberg.com and on the Bloomberg
terminal. Let's turn back to energy.
Crude sitting in the triple digits as
the industry searches for workarounds to
get crude flowing once again. The
president maintaining lower oil prices
are on the way.
As soon as that war is over, which will
be soon, your prices are going to drop
like a rock.
You watch.
Dan Pickering of Pickering Energy
Partners writing, "If the US just stops,
then Iran holds the keys to chaos by
threatening future strait shutdowns.
This would create a perpetual risk
premium on oil prices." Dan joins us now
for more. Dan, welcome to the program.
Let's build on that last line, it's
important. Do you think this is regime
change for the price of crude?
Uh it's certainly putting a lower floor
in on crude and it really does depend,
as Annmarie was saying, it depends on
things that are very difficult to
understand and and predict. And so, if
we end the war in Iran without some sort
of definitive action that controls the
Straits of Hormuz, there's going to be a
higher price to crude. Is it going to be
triple digits? Not necessarily, but it
will certainly not go as low as it's
been recently. Dan, we've watched the
dominoes fall over the past 2 weeks. As
the energy couldn't move through the
Strait of Hormuz, production started
being cut. And now we're in a different
phase. They're finding workarounds.
First it was the pipeline, the East-West
pipeline in Saudi Arabia. Now there's
other workarounds, too. What phase are
we in at the moment?
Yeah, we
As the market tightens, everyone looks
for alternatives. Sooner or later, you
can't tweak around the margin and the
problem remains. 15% of global supply is
is offline. You draw down inventories,
you try to reroute pipelines, but that's
just too much oil to to work around. And
so, at some point, and and that point is
is months, not quarters, at some point,
uh
price is going to have to solve the
supply-demand equation and that price
isn't isn't where we're at today with
WTI near 100, it's going to be 20 or 30%
higher. So, what is the oil market right
now pricing in, given the fact that
there is a high likelihood that this
conflict is going to go on for at least
another couple of weeks?
Yeah, I think in a couple of weeks, I
stop looking at the front month or the
near-term spot prices because those are
wildly volatile and and move with news
flow. I look out to the 2027 and 2028
crude futures, which have moved from,
call it $60 a barrel WTI, up into the
sort of high 60s, low 70s. That tells me
that the market's decided there's $5
longer-term premium that's coming in
because of potentially how this
situation winds up. There are two
schools of thought, Dan. On one hand,
some people say there will be a longer a
higher long-term price simply because
there'll be hoarding and a premium on
some of these physical goods. Other
people say that if the short-term
situation, if the short-term conflict
does get worse, escalates and creates
really high energy prices, that actually
will drive prices down incredibly low on
the back end of this conflict. Where do
you Where do you stand on that?
Yeah, the the the issue of the higher it
goes, the more demand destruction you
have, the longer it takes to recover
from that. So, the higher it goes,
potentially the lower it falls. Um
where I stand on this is that it's it is
all about the duration. If the straits
are closed for 6 months,
we're going to have $125 oil for quite a
period of time. We're going to have
economic issues, probably a recession.
Um if we solve this in the next couple
of weeks, we probably come back down to
the 70s, gasoline prices come back down
to reasonable levels, and we're sort of
back to a new normal where gasoline and
oil are a little bit more expensive, but
not dramatically more expensive. Dan,
what's the gap right now between the
physical market and the futures market?
Cuz I'm looking at Oman and Dubai crude
and they're 55, $60 higher than where
Brent is trading.
Yeah, um
if you have to own the physical barrels,
you are paying a significant premium
over the financial markets to get them.
I think the financial market's 10 times
bigger than the physical market. So,
financial market's pricing where you can
trade paper barrels. If you are trying
to get a barrel in the Middle East, um
you're paying more. You know, same same
story with jet fuel and other products.
So, uh there's there are signs of
physical supply tightness that is is not
being reflected in the financial
markets. Um that has happened
historically as well. So, it's it's not
unusual, but it does say that the
physical market quite tight. If we have
a prolonged shut or the Iranians
continue to control and not allow most
vessels to go through the Strait of
Hormuz for prolonged period of time,
will the physical market or the futures
market, rather, catch up to the physical
market?
It'll certainly It'll certainly drag the
financial markets higher. You're
Right now, you're pricing out demand in
in
in isolated instances with that $150
crude in the Middle East, for instance,
on the on the physical market. The
financial market's going to move up to
the same spot and pull basically prices
worldwide that direction. And if that
happens, then we will start to see, you
know, we will we will price out the 5,
10, 15 million barrels a day that we are
not
um able to get through the straits. Dan,
what would happen if Iran turned around
and said, "Any vessel with a Chinese
flag on top can come through, no
problem." Would that change things
materially?
I think what we'd see is we'd see a lot
of Chinese flag vessels moving through
the straits. And and I mean, the
market's efficient, it'll move quickly
to have China be the source of of
shipping through the straits. But I do
think we'd see near-term prices drop.
And and I'm a believer that when this
conflict ends, regardless of how it
ends, near-term prices come down because
more oil will flow. So, So, whether it's
Chinese tankers, a US flotilla, uh
protection, uh regime change, etc.
However it ends, prices come down. More
oil through the straits, prices come
down. The question is,
come down to what? Well, Dan, this is
what I'm trying to work out though.
Where's the pressure point and who holds
the keys? And ultimately, it feels like
the pressure point's going to be in
China. It's not going to be here in the
United States and they hold the keys.
They can get the Iranians to come
around. Now, am I reading it wrong or
are other people reading it wrong? Is
there a path there to reopen things?
Yeah, so China and India both approached
Iran and said, "Let us take tankers
through the straits."
Um that's another gambit in the
strategy. The question is, how long does
that last or does the US allow that
ultimately?
Um are you going to feel comfortable
with Iran in charge of the straits and
allowing some vessels to come through,
but not all? Do we wind up with this
uncertainty premium that creeps into the
market even if barrels do start to flow
to Asia? Dan, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Dan Pickering there of
Pickering Energy Partners. I think there
was a hope going into the weekend and
initially coming out the other side of
the weekend that that was the direction
of travel. I'm not sure if that's
misplaced hope or not. You know, to your
point, regardless of the political
backdrop and what ultimately happens in
terms of who controls the strait, in the
near term, if Chinese barrels can get
through in a real way, that could lower
the prices and then allow this conflict
to continue at the level that it is
without necessarily disrupting the oil
trade on a mass level. I mean, this is
sort of one question that people have as
people try to look through this as much
as they possibly can in markets. The
only other issue, of course, is that
it's not just Iran. Oman and the UAE are
also bordering the Strait of Hormuz. And
the UAE certainly doesn't want this to
become Iran decides who goes through and
who doesn't. And Dr. Anwar Gargash spoke
to Ethan Bronner, our Israeli bureau
chief to the Council on Foreign
Relations. And he said the UAE may be
willing and wants other nations to join
this coalition because they want this to
remain an international body of water.
They do not see a future where Iran
decides who gets to go ahead and who
doesn't.
>> Multidimensional geopolitical chess
right now in the Middle East. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohana has more.
Hey, Yohana. Hi, John. [music]
President Donald Trump abandoning his
efforts to recruit partners for the war
in Iran. The president criticizing NATO
allies for their lack of military
support to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Most countries [music] showed little
willingness to join the mission, which
military analysts say would be risky
without a ceasefire.
The Pentagon is working to develop
alternatives to Anthropic's AI tools. A
senior US defense official telling
[music] Bloomberg the move comes after
the Trump administration's decision to
declare the company a supply chain risk
in a feud over safeguards governing
military use of the technology.
And Boeing signaling that several
performance issues will weigh [music] on
its first quarter results. The
planemaker saying it's delivered fewer
wide-body aircraft than planned. It also
said wiring defects [music] on the 737
Max are a headwind for this year. Boeing
is now pushing back by a year its goal
of generating positive margins at its
key commercial plane unit. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohana, thank
[music] you. Thanks for the update. More
from Yohana in the next hour. Up next on
the program, facing new risks.
There's downside risk around labor, but
then you also have to acknowledge that
there's some upside price risk. So, it
makes it very difficult for the Fed.
It's a little too soon for them to
really come down on one side or the
other. Up next, Neil Dutta of
Renaissance Macro Research from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Could be a long time for financial
markets and that news conference later
on could be an absolute snooze with
Chairman Powell. I [music] can tell you
journalists will do their best to make
it interesting. He has got one mission,
one goal, to make this very boring later
on this afternoon. Journalists, meaning
us. We're going to be right here trying
to listen to any kind of clues. He's
going to be trying to be boring at a
time when this market is anything but,
this economy is anything but. And it's a
real difficult thing because on one hand
people are looking for a policy response
and the Fed is ultimately going to tell
us we don't have one for you.
Ultimately, we cannot be the person who
steps [music] in and provides any
comfort. So, it has to come from the
White House, it has to come from
conflicts. And right now people [music]
can't price that in, so they're just
ignoring it. Just to clarify, our show's
going to be great. Of course. The news
conference is going to be boring. And
[music] the journalists in the news
conference will try and make it
interesting. You know, John and Tom are
going to be doing a duo, tap dancing
duo. You should You should stick in.
It's going to be a two the Fed dot
pattern and it's going to be absolutely
wonderful. TK watches [music] the news
conference.
What does he do during that? Does he go
out for like a drink or something? Does
TK
>> [laughter]
>> somewhere else?
Right now equity futures on the S&P
firmer by about 0.5% on the Nasdaq up by
0.6. Under Savannah this morning facing
new risks.
There's downside risk around labor, but
then you also have to acknowledge that
there's some upside price risk. So, it
makes it very difficult for the Fed.
It's a little too soon for them to
really come down on one side or the
other. That's one way they can kind of
communicate almost a little bit of a
dovish bias because they're saying yes,
there are some, you know, more upside
inflation risk, but we're not really
taking away the the cut that we have in
later this year.
>> [music]
>> It's the latest this morning the Federal
Reserve set to deliver a rate decision
and new set of projections while facing
triple digit crude prices. Neil Dutta of
Renaissance Macro writing we're on track
for three poor core inflation prints in
a row ahead of a shock to oil markets. I
think it's more likely that a cut is a
raised all together. Neil joins us now
for more. Neil, welcome. Was looking
forward to this. So, let's go from the
top. 2:00 p.m. Eastern time projections
drop. What changes?
Well, I mean, I don't think that the Fed
will be as dovish as they have been if
you judge it based on the summary of
economic projections. I mean, if you
just think about this in terms of mark
to market and you're a forecaster,
it's more obvious that they need to
revise up their core inflation forecast.
I mean, core PCE is basically tracking
above 3%
as of this meeting and they expect it to
go to 2 and 1/2% by the end of the year.
In order to hit hit that bogey, you
basically need core inflation prints
I think around 2/10 of a percent for the
rest of the year. That's a pretty
pretty tall order all things considered.
I mean, we haven't even seen the flow
through of energy into
into core inflation and some of that
will bleed in, not a lot, but that's
that's going to happen.
And so,
you know, if you're looking at this
objectively, I think you just have to
say
it's much more likely that they'll be
revising up core PCE inflation. It could
be as much as 3/10
than revising up the unemployment rate
estimate,
which basically stays at 4.4%. So,
you put that into a simple Taylor rule
model John and you know, I think 30
basis points higher on core inflation,
that's probably good for enough of them
to to take a rate cut off the table.
Neil, you've been pounding the table
about the labor market and saying that
it is much weaker than people are
currently giving it credit for or
lacking the credit of. I'm just
wondering, what do you think the
consequence of a Fed remaining on hold
is for the economy?
Well, it's not good. It's not good. I
mean, it reinforces the the downside
risk to the job market.
You know, ultimately if the unemployment
rate is going up
and the Fed isn't easing
and you know, providing some kind of
shock absorber to that, it just
reinforces the upside risk to the
unemployment rate.
Do you think that it increases chance of
recession this year, which ultimately no
one is really pricing in?
Yeah, I mean, I think that the risk of
recession is higher than the markets
believe. Of course, I've I've said that
for some time now. But, you know, look,
at the end of the day the economy is not
in the same place it was in 2022, which
is why drawing parallels to that period
I think are misplaced. I mean, back then
the labor markets were strong, real
incomes were rising. Today,
that's not the case.
Real incomes net of transfers are
running basically half of a percent over
the last year and that was true even
before this latest inflation shock. Of
course, back then we had a massive pile
of excess savings that consumers were
able to draw down. Again, that's not the
case today. The savings rate if anything
has already been drawn down. I mean,
that's one of the reasons why consumer
spending has been as strong as it has
been over the last you know, 12 months
or so.
And even then
>> [clears throat]
>> consumption has been slowing despite
that drawdown in savings. So, I think
that the consumer here is on you know,
not as strong footing as was the case a
few years ago and you know, it's
encouraging to see oil prices moderate
somewhat
today,
but ultimately we're on a glide path
nationally to $4
a a gallon gasoline. I mean, that's
that's likely to happen at some point in
the next week or two. So,
that provides some sticker shock I think
to consumers. And you know, one thing
we're not talking about, we're not
talking about tax refunds anymore.
So, a lot of the enthusiasm that people
had going into the year I think has been
effectively neutered as a result of
this. Well, Neil, in some states we're
already above four in the president's
own Florida we're at 393 when it comes
to a gallon of gasoline. You said going
into the weekend the two core pillars of
Trump economics are rising equity prices
and low energy prices.
Are we at risk of losing both of these
at this moment?
Well, I mean, I think we're losing the I
mean, for households of course, the main
issue is that you know, even though
America is a large energy producer now,
the money doesn't recycle back into the
economy quickly. So, consumers will
spend less
than oil producers will spend more at
least in the short run. So, I think
that's something that people need to
think about here is that
you know, the the sort of the elasticity
of the spending. It's not like oil
producers are going to take their new
found income windfall and go out and
spend it in a bunch of mining rigs. I
mean, in fact, to the extent that people
are saying this is going to be
transitory, they they may be less
inclined to do that. So, I think the
growth shock is actually that much more
material at least up front. But, with
respect to equities,
you know, look, equities are hanging in
there. I mean, there there's some
there was probably some anxiety before
all this.
So, even if you get a quick resolution
to this, I mean, I I don't think we're
sort of like raging back to new highs.
But, for now, I mean, the stock market
is you know, for lack of a better
phrase, trusting in Trump.
Neil Dutta, it's good to see you, sir.
Neil Dutta there of Renaissance Macro on
the trust in the president right now in
this equity market, an equity market
that's still very, very close to
all-time highs. Coming into this year,
we're going to go over all ground here I
know, but we were set up quite nicely.
Lots of tailwinds coming into the new
year, reasons for consumer confidence to
inflect, to bounce, to pick up a little
bit coming into 2026, into spring
selling season in the housing market
with mortgage rates coming down. Now
anxiety starts to build for different
reasons and you wonder to what extent
this move in crude does upend the year
ahead. And the reason why people aren't
necessarily leaning into the idea of
this being totally disruptive is because
they've seen this movie before. Remember
liberation day in April. Oh, the world
is falling. Oh, wait a minute, it's not.
It's actually an incredible buying
opportunity. And there's so many people
see more parallels with that than say a
1970s type of scenario. Conditioned to
buy. Yes. Equity futures right now up by
0.4% on the S&P in the next hour.
Premisra of JP Morgan, Seth Jones of
CSIS, Jeff Currie of Carlyle, and Brad
Rogoff of Barclays. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg [music] TV.
Trying to forecast the path of this
Middle [music] East conflict is
incredibly difficult. Investors still
have risk appetite. If you're selling
equities today, there's a real chance
you could get whipsawed. Trying to gauge
what the trigger points will be is very
difficult. We don't have a lens on
[music] when this is going to end.
Nobody does. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from audience
worldwide. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right [music] now.
The price action and scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P holding
high, holding steady up by 0.4% on the
S&P 500. On the Nasdaq up by 0.6 adding
to back-to-back gains on the S&P 500 in
the previous two sessions. In the
commodity market right now, Brent WTI
look like this. 103.84 on Brent. Four
consecutive [music] sessions north of
100 for Brent crude. Can we make it day
five up by 0.4%
heading into this event later on this
afternoon. A Fed decision, a statement,
projections, and news conference with
Chairman Powell at 2:30 Eastern time.
Here's my proposal. I think that they
should have a dartboard, they should
have some darts, they should have some
potential targets for inflation and
growth and they should just play a game
because ultimately they don't have any
edge on what is a noble right now. They
haven't spoken since the war in Iran
really did pick up. So they can't really
comment necessarily. They haven't been
commenting on oil prices. The sense that
we won't get back to lower pricing in
oil unless there is a ceasefire.
>> [music]
>> And frankly, J. Powell is not going to
be answering questions on when the
ceasefire is going to happen. In fact,
he's not even going to be answering
questions about his own future.
>> So the news conference is always to me
at least about emphasis. Where is the
emphasis going to be? Does he place more
emphasis on the labor market data
recently? That labor report was
ridiculously soft. Or does he put more
emphasis on the inflation [music] risk
that's on the horizon? One or the other
right now is going to indicate to this
market where the committee is leaning at
the moment.
>> came out and he said history typically
hasn't been kind to central banks that
raised rates into an oil price shock,
this market would say hallelujah and it
would rally tremendously. If he comes
out and he says CPI core PCE has been
above target and is deflecting in the
wrong direction, we are very concerned.
This oil price shock only adds to those
concerns. It does raise the prospect of
two-sided [music] risks, either rate cut
or rate hike, this market will freak
out. And that is ultimately what you're
dealing with later today.
>> This market's now freaking out right
now. 103.80 on Brent crude, around 95 on
WTI. The focus on the pressure points in
the Middle East and the release [music]
valves. We talked a lot about these
pipelines and some of the shipping that
is making its way through the Strait of
Hormuz. It's just little headline after
headline continuing to build. It's
certain individuals and as you've been
rightly talking about, it's it's certain
vessels that have certain flags, Chinese
flags. Obviously Iranian crude is being
let through. Some Indian vessels are
being let through. Some Pakistani
vessels are being let through. Maybe one
or two Turkish vessels being let
through. But it's small and it's not
enough to impact the price of oil right
now in terms of trying to depress
[music] where the price is right now.
Until the strait is fully open and not
controlled by the Iranians, [music]
we will not have that release valve. And
what the Iranians are saying right now,
the foreign minister gave an interview
last night and says we need a new
protocol for the Strait of Hormuz. We
are not seeking a ceasefire. The head of
the speaker of the parliament said
yesterday we are not going back to
normal [music] when it comes to the
strait. And this is why you see the
administration and the Israelis continue
to attack their military targets.
>> crude is still around triple digits.
[music] Big hour coming up. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Priya
Misra of JP Morgan Securities Bank, Jeff
Currie of Carlyle on the real cost of
the Hormuz shock. And Brad Rogoff of
Barclays as Wall Street eyes a Fed rate
decision later on this afternoon. We
begin this hour with stocks chasing a
third day of gains. Priya Misra of JP
Morgan writing overall market surprising
in two assumptions. The shock to energy
will be short-lived and underlying
economic fundamentals are solid. Priya
joins us now for more. Priya, good
morning. Morning. Are those two
assumptions misplaced?
I think the the
you know, the they're at risk. They are
both at risk here. We don't know the
off-ramp. We don't know the end point.
So around the the energy price shock, I
think that's a big question that the
market's hoping that this is
short-lived, that the end point is
actually, you know, $50, oil prices. And
then the underlying fundamentals, I
would still highlight, you know, you
talked about the last
payroll report. That was weak. Now the
previous one was strong. So what I'm
hoping to get from Chair Powell is not
his view on the off-ramp or the end
point, you know, or forecast around the
war or the economy. We really don't
know. It's about the reaction function.
How is he going to respond to a slow
rise in the unemployment rate if
inflation remains sticky, which it's
been sticky. I think the market's
pricing in more of this inflation shock.
There's a growth shock that's coming at
a time when the consumer is fairly
vulnerable and the labor market is very
vulnerable. I mean, in terms of hiring,
the hiring numbers are weak and, you
know, I'm not really seeing signs of
that picking up. Um so, I think that
what we're looking for is that reaction
function. I think he's going to want to
come out of this press conference
without any movement. Uh I think the
forecasts are not going to move a whole
lot either. They have to mark to market
the inflation numbers. Probably have to
mark to market the growth numbers lower
and the labor market, you know, or or
the unemployment rate slightly higher.
So this divided Fed is going to look
even more divided because, you know, the
the sort of
the dual mandate is is sort of pulling
them in different directions. think he's
just going to say data dependent, you
know, where I think he's going to
acknowledge the war but say that
that they sort of remain uncertain.
>> This is an operation epic fury. It's
operation make it boring for Chairman
Powell later this afternoon. I think so.
Yes. And I think he's going to be asked
about his future. I don't think we're
going to get much from that. I think
he's going to say the Fed remains
singularly focused on their dual
mandate. They'll respond as the data
comes out. But I think history has
suggested, you know, there was an
excellent
sort of Bernanke paper done in '97 that
talked about why do oil price shocks
result in in recessions? It's because
the central banks hike. I want I don't
know if he's going to highlight it. I
hear your discussion earlier. I think if
he's going to highlight it, inflation
expectations might start to rise. But I
think if we get a sense from them, what
are they looking for? I mean, we know
headline inflation is going to be
higher. What is the pass-through into
core inflation? What's the pass-through
into wages? Inflation expectations. If
he highlights that, that's the reaction
function, you know, reading between the
lines that I'll be watching for to get a
sense that this Fed is not going to be
driven by the Taylor rule. They're going
to look at the fact that, you know,
what's driving underlying inflation
higher. And our sense is underlying
inflation, we look at service inflation,
look at shelter, look at wages, we're
not seeing signs that that is
reaccelerating. So I think the Fed
should be able to look through it. I
don't think we'll get a very clear read
from them that they're looking through
the oil price shock. But let's see, what
what does he highlight as what the Fed
is looking for as they figure out if
they can look through this oil price
shock. There's a new Fed chair right now
that we're seeing in the market and it
is a 10-year bond yield. And what we're
seeing is a 10-year bond yield is saying
ultimately, either way, inflation is
going to come lower and the question is
just how much lower in the long term as
a result of this oil price shock. You've
been talking about how you're starting
to find duration somewhat attractive. Do
you think that 10-year yields, Fed chair
tenure, is going to ultimately express
even lower inflation in the weeks ahead?
So I think the bond market is an
extremely important you know, there's
there's a put there's a put from the
president and I think the Fed will look
at. So I don't know if it's Fed chair
tenure rate. I like that analogy. I
think it's a very important you know,
indicator of financial conditions. To
your point on the 10-year, I think the
bond market really looked at this and
said this is an inflation shock. The
growth shock is sort of missed I think
because the bond market thinks this is
short-lived. I do struggle if it's that
short-lived. Is it as much of an
inflation shock? So I think the bond
market just focused on that spot price
of oil. That's going up. That's
inflationary. Look at the fact that
we're at 3% core PCE and and that's why
I think rates rose. In my view, the
starting point suggested that people
were long duration. Duration's been
working as a hedge to risk assets now
for the last 6 months. And so I think
people were just long. They were long in
Europe. They were long in the UK. They
were long in the US. They had these
relative value trades. I think what
we've seen is an unwind of that. The
collateral damage of, you know, the war
shock has been people have sold
Treasuries. It's also [clears throat]
the most liquid asset that you can sell,
you know, if you're trying to just raise
cash. Now I think value's been created
in the bond market where we've priced
out a lot of the cuts this year. I do
think if the Fed starts to cut later
because they're con- they're concerned
about inflation. They're concerned about
that second order pass-through into core
inflation, they'll have to cut more. The
earlier they they can start, I think
they end up doing less. If they are
starting to cut rates later this year to
respond to the rise in the unemployment
rate, they might be cutting more. So I
think yes, owning I think the curve is
tricky because it it depends on when
they start to cut rates. But owning the
five-year, that's only pricing in 40
basis points of rate cuts. I think it
provides you protection for that growth
shock as well as if we get any sort of
credit concerns. You know, that's also
lingering AI disruption to the labor
market. That's there at the back of our
mind. I know we have PTSD from 2022 and
we're seeing an oil price shock. But I
think if those issues come back to the
forefront, I think duration will be your
friend.
Is it a time to buy duration, to buy
long-term bonds, and to sell riskier
credit simply because there are some of
there's risks that are percolating. We
saw yesterday a software company failed
to be able to raise money in the debt
markets, in the bond and loan markets
because frankly, people just were not
interested in them. How much do you see
this really starting to break in terms
of some sort of credit cycle? I love
that you bring up the credit market
because I think that's so important to
sort of keep risk assets where they are
as well. You know, I think it is going
to come down to the balance sheet. I
mean, you talk about the software
company and then we look at Amazon that
was able to issue a large amount at
barely any concession. So I think the
market is becoming discerning. We're
seeing dispersion within the high yield
market, within the investment grade
market pick up. I think people are
looking at the borrower. They're looking
at the underwriting standards. They're
looking at how liquid, you know, how
quickly if I want to get out, you know,
is will it be easy to get out? At the
same time as there is these massive
structural changes to business models.
So, you know, I think you know, you talk
about riskier credit? Yes, I think risk
premiums should be higher, particularly
if you're in a business model that might
be challenged with AI. You should you
might want to be paid more for it or try
and understand who the winners and
losers there will be. But for high
quality credit, we still see value. In
fact, some value's being created there.
Those spreads have not widened as much.
But look at the balance sheet of a lot
of those companies. So we like owning
credit and we like owning duration
because what if the economy, the
consumer that's been so resilient
through high interest rates, now, you
know, there's high oil prices. If the
consumer starts to break, I think
duration will give you that hedge to
those, you know, risks. Even if you have
less risk, you do have credit risk as,
you know, it's giving you income. I
think that's why we're seeing inflows
into fixed income, into bond funds.
Higher quality credit, I think where
you've you have good sheets and good
underwriting. I think there's still
value there, but just own that hedge.
Priya, back to the Fed this afternoon.
Do you think Powell's actually a lame
duck at this meeting? I don't think so.
No, he's still in charge. I think the
committee can will has been rallying
behind him. But do you think it's a
second-to-last meeting? It is
It is likely. I mean, that's a tough
one.
>> really getting at. We don't know. I know
I was trying not to answer that
question. I mean, let's hope
>> that
that there is
you know, some resolution with with the
DOJ and the fact that you know, Senator
Tillis actually gets a new Fed chair.
But I think the committee there may be
dissents. I do think there'll be a few
dissents. And it is a divided committee.
And I think Chair Powell's done an
excellent job of giving the view of the
committee, allowing dissents when the
when there's the economic uh situation
right now, I can totally see where the
dissents are coming from. I don't think
this is a political Fed at all. They're
just dealing like all of us with lots of
unknowns. And they're trying to do the
best thing that they can. So, no, I
think And if he's not the If he's still
the Fed chair or not the Fed chair, I
think this Fed will continue to just
focus on the dual mandate.
>> Excellent job of not answering the
question, Priya. It's good to see you. A
professional, as always. Priya missed it
there at JPMorgan. Nobody knows the
answer to that question right now. Maybe
even Jay Powell. Ultimately, we will
have to see exactly how these things
transpire. We don't even know if we're
going to have a replacement to him as
Fed chair come later this year. So, a
lot of questions still.
>> Things can get messy in a few months'
time. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara. Hi, John.
President Donald Trump is abandoning his
efforts to recruit global partners for
the war in Iran. The president's
criticizing NATO's NATO allies for their
lack of military support to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz. Most countries showed
a little willingness to join the
mission, which military analysts say
would be risky without [music] a
ceasefire.
Meanwhile, Oaktree co-founder Howard
Marks saying AI is making the world more
unpredictable than ever before. Marks
spoke to our own Lisa Abramowicz at the
Capital Markets Industry Conference in
New York.
Well, I think most people are
underestimating the impact of AI.
Roughly 18 days ago, on a Friday, that
company called Block, which had 10,000
employees, announced that 4,000 of them
were out.
40% of the workforce gone in one day
because AI could do the work cheaper and
faster.
Marks adding investors are probably
better off buying shares of an
AI-focused company rather than lending
it money.
And we are [music] seeing shares of the
retailer Macy's up nearly 7% in the
premarket. The department store chain
reporting fourth-quarter results that
beat Wall Street [music] estimates. As
for the forecast, its comparable sales
and profit came in below expectations
with Macy's saying its guidance is
prudent because of macroeconomic
and geopolitical factors. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. [music]
Yahara, thank you. Get set to hear more
of that in about a month's time when a
company sees something they don't like.
>> Yeah. Geopolitical factors.
>> 100%. And frankly, a lot of people might
give them a pass. Although, do they have
to offset it with the strength that we
saw from Delta and from American in
order to get a pass from this market?
>> weather in January, February. Got the
geopolitical factors. Just like all
lined up there, ready for a CEO [music]
to talk about on the call.
>> I feel like there should be buttons,
currency differentials, weather,
geopolitics.
>> We didn't execute well this quarter.
What have we got? We've got the weather.
>> [laughter]
>> It's a menu. It should be a rule of
thumb. Remember Ulta Beauty? When the
currency's [music] going against them,
we've got the currency.
>> lip gloss, really?
>> Right, come on. Okay.
>> Wind. Up next on the program, claiming
the upper hand in [music] Iran.
We did
a little excursion, and it's where we
ahead of schedule, as you know. out
their navy, their air force, their
anti-aircraft
equipment, their radar,
and their leaders.
Up next, we'll catch up with Seth Jones
of CSIS from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
It is Fed decision day. That decision
later on this afternoon. Heading into
that, the scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by 0.5 on
the Nasdaq, up by 0.6. Equities doing
okay, back to back gains and adding to
them so far this morning. In the
commodity market, Brent and WTI, Brent
crude north of 100 once again, 103.65
and up by just 2/10 of 1% [music] so far
this morning. Under Savannah's this
morning, claiming the upper hand in
Iran.
We did
a little excursion, and it's where we
ahead of schedule, as you probably
noticed.
And we've had
There's no We knocked out their navy,
their air force, their anti-aircraft
equipment, their radar,
and their leaders. It's been uh
It's been amazing militarily, but it's
something that had to be done. And the
hits keep on coming. K Street likes us
this morning. Israel claiming the
elimination of another top Iranian
official. The US ramping up efforts to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz, dropping
5,000-lb bunker busters on Iranian
missile sites. Bloomberg's Dana Chandler
joins us now for more. Hey, Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, there's
no sign that there is a letup in the
conflict as President Trump yesterday
confirmed that the US has hit more than
7,000 Iranian military targets. And now
this White House is threatening to
expand that list of targets to energy
infrastructure if disruptions in the
Strait of Hormuz continue. President
Trump yesterday reiterated his threat
that oil depots on Kharg Island could
soon be hit after the US went after
military targets on the export hub
Friday, but spared its energy
infrastructure. Just for context here,
Kharg Island ships out about nine of
every 10 barrels of Iranian crude, but
imagery analyzed by Bloomberg News shows
that for the most part, those loadings
for the moment have continued unabated.
This as President Trump appears to
abandon his call for allies to help to
secure the Strait of Hormuz after many
were weary of his demands to send naval
escorts. Now, on Iran's end, we've also
seen this escalation as they continue to
go after energy infrastructure earlier
this week, setting ablaze an oil gas
field in the UAE and continuing strikes
on regional countries, including Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait overnight. Plus, we
should keep on the radar that Israel is
now upping its offensive in Lebanon as
it goes after the Iranian-backed
Hezbollah militant group. John, amid all
of this escalation, President Trump
yesterday still maintained that we could
see an end to this conflict in what he
called the  very near future, but
also went on to say that at the moment
he's not ready to let up operations
quite yet.
>> Dana Chandler with the latest outside
the White House. Dana, thank you. Seth
Jones of CSIS with this to say, writing
the brutal truth is that while the US
military may succeed in degrading
Iranian capabilities, it has dug itself
a large hole in responding to other
global conflicts. Seth joins us now for
more. Seth, good morning. Good morning.
Where and how is this making the US more
vulnerable?
Well, I think the reality as the US's
own national defense strategy and
national security strategy note that the
US priorities are elsewhere in the
world. China in particular, but also the
US notes Latin America. There's an
ongoing war in Ukraine with the Russians
right now. And the US is already running
low. It was already low before this war
started on key stockpiles of both
offensive long-range munitions like the
JASSM and the Tomahawk, and also on
defensive munitions for Patriot and
THAAD. So, as those stockpiles run low,
there's a big question with the Chinese
pretty active in the Taiwan Straits and
the South China Sea, how much the US is
going to have left in its bins for the
future. Lots of reporting, too, as well
that China is keenly focused on this to
understand how the US military works.
What are they learning from our
offensive right now in the Gulf? Well, I
I think they are seeing, to be
to be clear, they are seeing a US and an
Israeli military that are uh superb at
precision strike. Uh they are also
superb at air defense. I mean, we are
shooting down a large number of Iranian
drones, cruise missiles, ballistic
missiles. We're also striking with
precision the leadership, command and
control bases. But you also see the
limitations of the US military, its
stockpiles of munitions. And you also
see the asymmetric challenges that the
US faced in Iraq and Afghanistan we're
seeing now in the Strait of Hormuz,
which is the threat of mines. It's not a
big conventional force that the Iranians
have, but it's those asymmetric
challenges that do pose pose a threat.
>> You touched on it when you're talking
about the Chinese vessels that are in
the Taiwan Strait. Would this be an
opportune time for Xi Jinping to do
something when it comes to Taiwan? I
mean, it's possible. Anything's
possible. The big challenge for the
Chinese at this very moment is they have
obliterated their leadership. Within the
last two to three years, they've gotten
rid of over 100 senior PLA, People's
Liberation Army, officials, including of
their top committee, the
CMC. So, the Chinese are not really in a
position uh
in from all levels, the strategic down
to the tactical level operators, to make
a move at this point. But we do see
them. I I was I was up in an aircraft,
US Navy P-8, in the South China Sea last
year. The Chinese are everywhere. They
are conducting exercises on a regular
basis around the Taiwan Strait to
simulate a blockade. So, uh they're
certainly thinking about it. That I
don't think now is the ideal time for
them just because of what they've done.
There's a question about just the
munitions and what type of resources the
United States has. There's also a
question of alliances and where they
lie. How do you see them really shifting
in the wake of and perhaps accelerated
by this war in Iran?
So, I mean on the alliance structure, I
I've talked to a couple of senior
European defense officials including
Minister of Defense the other day of of
one of the US's NATO allies.
I think that the challenge that they
were never briefed on this war to begin
with. They were asked once the US
struggled along those lines
to to come in. The same was true with US
allies in Japan, South Korea, Australia,
all of which have been hesitant to jump
into the war that the US and and Israel
started. So, I I think the the the US
position with some of these allies has
been very transactional recently. And I
think [snorts] at some point there has
to be an effort to bring them
bring them more closer together. But
they are very concerned, the ones in
Asia about the growth of the Chinese,
and the ones in Europe are very
concerned about the Russian military.
Seth, just to finish on China. Have we,
the US, learned anything about Chinese
capabilities in places like Iran, in
places like Venezuela, and deficiencies
specifically? Uh I mean on on the
Chinese side, the the reality is the
Chinese have not fought a war since the
1970s
and they weren't particularly effective.
But what they have done is they've
provided components to the Russians in
the war in uh in Ukraine. They've also
provided components and various types of
assistance including intelligence to the
Iranians, not just now but over the last
several years including to some of
Iran's partner forces including the
Houthis in Yemen. So, they are they've
also put uh contractors and intelligence
officials on the ground to learn how to
conduct these kinds of wars. So, they
are they are taking notes. How flawed is
that experience though, given how clean
the operation was in a place like
Venezuela? We've heard all things like
they've got the defense systems that
were sold to them by the Chinese and
ultimately none of it stood up against
US capability. Yeah, I mean what what it
really shows in some ways actually and I
I know there had been there have been
some comments last year about the the
the uh expense of say the F-35 uh
stealth aircraft which is in the
billions of dollars. But the the benefit
of a fifth generation stealth aircraft
that Lockheed Martin makes is that it's
hard for radar to see it. So, one of the
things I think that even those Chinese
and Russian air defense systems are
finding out is that a fifth generation
and the US is now working on a sixth
generation aircraft, they are tough to
see. Seth, it's good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down. Some real
knowledge there. Seth Jones there of
CSIS on the on the ground operation that
we're seeing turn out day after day.
>> And when it comes to those stealth
fighter jets, there are reports that
they're actually [music] flying very
close or even in Iranian airspace right
now and there's really nothing the
regime can do. And next on the program,
we'll catch up with Jeff Currie of
Carlyle on the forces reshaping the
energy market. Plus, Yohai has some
morning movers. AI optimism pushing
memory stocks even higher. That rally
makes a comeback. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks just retreating from session
highs, still positive but pulling back
just a little bit in the last few
minutes.
>> [music]
>> We're positive by a quarter of 1% on the
S&P and the Nasdaq up by 0.4.
This crossing just moments ago from
Iranian state TV that part of the
[music] South Pars gas field has been
attacked. This is from Iranian state TV,
part of the South Pars gas field has
been attacked. If you're not familiar
with that, it's a very large gas field
offshore in the Persian Gulf and a
notable strike if that's the case. That
headline crossing just moments ago.
>> It's a lot of questions about this
strike. Has this come from the United
States? Has this come from Israel? But
as you mentioned, in terms of [music]
energy production, this is a massive
offshore natural gas field. So, there's
going to be a lot of questions right now
and individuals and you can already see
gas futures in Europe spiking [music] on
the news. There's going to be a lot of
individuals that will want to know
exactly the damage that was done to this
offshore field.
>> And who did the damage? [music] Because
initially so far there's been limited
damage to infrastructure in the Middle
East, to energy infrastructure
specifically, damaged by the US or by
Israel. There have been some exceptions
but limited so far. That would be a
severe escalation if that was
intentional and from their side.
>> And particularly for this uh gas field
given the fact that it's shared between
Iran and Qatar and Qatar accounts for
about a quarter or more than that of the
world's liquefied natural gas. It's the
reason why there is a response in
European markets. If that becomes fair
game, [music] how much of the world's
supplies are suddenly put in the firing
line?
>> We'll keep tracking that headline for
you. It comes from state TV. Iran saying
that part of the South [music] Pars gas
field has been attacked. Equities
pulling back just a little bit on the
S&P 500. [music] Let's get you some
single names. A few hours away from the
open about Yohai has more. Hey Yohai. Hi
John. Earnings are in for Macy's and it
was a bit of a mixed report but as you
can see investors choosing to focus on
the good with shares up 8.7% [music] in
the pre-market. It was a beat on
comparable sales and profit in the last
quarter but it but Macy's [music] struck
a cautious tone when it came to the
guidance calling its outlook prudent
citing both macro and geopolitical risks
>> [music]
>> suspending. Meanwhile, we are seeing
Applied Optoelectronics,
Lumentum Holdings also ring in the
pre-market seeing demand momentum is
growing at an industry conference. But
if you're wondering what these companies
do, well they make the components that
move data between AI servers and they've
been on a bit of a wild ride
>> [music]
>> recently. That's because Nvidia CEO
Jensen Huang at the GTC conference made
some comments on optical connections
saying that it won't go all in on that,
instead it will continue to also use
copper. So, that just raising questions
over how much demand can really scale.
But these companies having a good day
this morning.
>> [music]
>> And we end on shares of microchip
stocks. These are the best performing
stocks this year. Micron up 2% in the
pre-market as they arrive ride a
wave of surging demand for their memory
chip products. But now comes the real
test with Micron reporting after the
bell and with that stock [music] up
nearly 60% year-to-date, it will be all
about whether it can deliver. John.
Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yohai later this hour. On our
radar this morning, Iran launching more
missile attacks overnight targeting the
UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Tel Aviv.
Tehran vowing revenge following the
assassination of their security chief.
Elsewhere, the Pentagon planning to mass
produce one-way loitering attack drones.
The drones were created by reverse
engineering Iran's cheap and deadly
Shahed system and are being used in the
war in the Middle East. And finally,
Japanese Prime Minister Takaichi saying
she's facing a quite extremely difficult
summit with President Trump tomorrow.
The statement coming after Tokyo's
refusal to send warships to Hormuz.
Takaichi citing Japan's pacifist
constitution.
>> Yeah, and part of the issue that
Takaichi is presenting is a lack of
capabilities that they have to really
support US troops, which is something
that NATO allies have highlighted as
well. She said, "I intend to convey
these points clearly and I'm sure the US
side understands these laws in terms of
the pacifist laws given our history."
Either way, it highlights how difficult
it is for international leaders to come
to the White House and have any kind of
discussion with President Trump given
some of the domestic pressure that they
are all facing.
>> Two things I imagine the White House is
going to bring up. After World War II
and obviously Japan has this pacifist
regime in place, they did send
minesweepers to the Middle East after
Operation Desert Storm. And in 1991 when
the US wrapped up the Gulf War. That's
the first point I think the White House
will say, "Well, can't you just send a
minesweeper?" The second point I imagine
this president because he's insinuated
in the last few days is going to go
through all the countries that refused
to help the United States right now. How
many US men and women are stationed in
those countries right now as a force of
deterrent. Japan has some 55,000 and
counting US service members and I
imagine that's going to come up in the
meeting.
>> are very exposed to what's happening in
the Middle East given how exposed they
are on the energy side. Jeff Currie of
Carlyle writes in this, "The cost of
rebuilding and recovering from the
Hormuz shock will be enormous and
underscores the regime change towards
physical assets." Jeff joins us now for
more. Jeff, welcome to the program. It's
always good to catch up with you, sir.
Fluid environment, so allow me to go
through the headline of the last five or
10 minutes or so. One headline, one
report coming from Iran that their
energy assets have been struck. Now, I
have limited information beyond that.
But Jeff, from your standpoint in the
week since we last spoke, has this got
worse or better?
Worse. I like to call it molecular
contagion. You know, last week we were
talking about shortages in Singapore.
You know, spices of jet fuel spiked to
$230 a barrel. This week, you know, it's
in Rotterdam. Rotterdam's $220 a barrel.
Thailand, Philippines, New Zealand,
Australia. So, this thing's going
intercontinental. And you know, so you
look at Singapore, Rotterdam, the
spread, there's no more price spread,
there's no more spare barrels, there's
no policy fix and it's just physics at
this point. I think I want to emphasize
these are physical supply chains. And
that the idea of around financialization
and the ability to print money apply
here and I think the title of that he
says it all. You can't print molecules.
Jeff, with that in mind, where and how
do you think we're underpricing this
risk still in financial markets?
That's the peculiar thing about this is
that you look at the paper markets,
they've entirely disconnected from the
physical market. Crude oil um on an Oman
basis, you know, on the other side of
the strait, the the side that's free,
spiked to $173 a barrel yesterday. Crude
delivered in Asia um is a blend of Dubai
and Oman, which is trading somewhere
around 130 and 170. Today this morning
they're one call it 120 to 150. So
you're delivering crude into Asia at
somewhere around $130 a barrel. Product
prices are spiraling above $200 a
barrel. So the disconnect is between the
paper market, which is sitting around
100 and the physical market, which is
showing a very different environment.
>> Jeff, some people have speculated that's
because of certain types of manipulation
in the futures market and that's the
reason why you have seen this gap blow
out. Do you think there's credence to
that?
You know, you could argue that on Monday
last week, there was a mysterious 11
million barrel seller. I don't want to
get into that. It's not enough to really
change the dynamic. I I I think that the
bigger factor that was likely driving
WTI and Brent and staying lower is the
price of Euros, Russian crude oil. It's
rallied 65, 70 dollars a barrel once
they took off the sanctions. So WTI and
Brent were the high cost barrels,
Russian was the cheap. What happened?
You close that gap. And now that you've
closed that gap, you don't have any more
spare barrels in the system and this
rest of the complex likely to start to
ride rally. You know, I go back to the
point that you know, John started with
is you know, we're dealing with a
enormous supply shock. By the way, the
supply shock is almost equal to the
demand shock during COVID and we know
what that did to global supply chains.
So I think you know, at $100 a barrel,
this thing's mispriced. Even against the
physical market. There is a sense though
that this time is a bit different than
say the 1970s in terms of the world's
reliance on oil, especially China, how
much they've diversified to electric
vehicles, to nuclear energy and other
places as well. How much do you think
that that is going to be the growing
trend diversify the sources of energy in
myriad ways beyond what we were doing
even during the so-called green
revolution as people try to avoid these
types of shocks.
I I absolutely argue that you know, the
renewables, nuclear power are born out
of the 1973 energy crisis and this is
going to unleash enormous amount of
investment into renewables, nuclear
power and other localized
energy sources. The problem though is we
call this the new jewel order. The
problem is that we haven't got to that
transition where we have electrified
everything, localized it and the type of
oil consumption that's left in the
global economy is critical. And so if
you pull those barrels out of the
system, the rippling factor, the
cascading effect through global supply
change is going to be significant. You
go from gas to urea, urea to
fertilizers, fertilizers to the dinner
table.
Or you go from LPGs to synthetic fibers,
synthetic fibers to cotton. You switch
out of soybeans and corn into cotton.
By the way, I think my the best sector
to try to
get value in right now would be
agriculture because it hasn't priced it
in. Jeff, when it comes to barrels
coming off the market, this came from an
industry consultant in terms of China.
They're looking at potentially a
drawdown in commercial and operational
stockpiles amounting to as much as 1
million barrels a day. That can happen
over the next four to six weeks. What
would that mean for the price of crude?
I think the key point is once you
exhaust those inventories, there's
nothing left. Think about it this way.
You have demand up here, supply down
here. Once those inventories are
exhausted, boom, you have to bring
demand down in line with supply. And to
do that, you're going to need prices far
higher than where we are right now. I
like to do the mirror image of COVID.
Let's go back to COVID. It was the exact
opposite. You had a situation which you
had demand up here and all right, excuse
me, the other way. You had supply up
here and demand down here. And so what
happened? The demand collapsed,
eventually you filled all the inventory
capacity in the world and you had to
bring supply down in demand immediately.
What did that require? A minus $37 a
barrel price to create that rebalancing
of supply and demand. Now we have the
exact opposite environment. So just
imagine what it's going to do to require
that reduction in demand to bring it in
line with supply if it took a minus $37
price to create that rebalancing back in
2020. So Jeff, I'm going to ask you the
question. What would it take? What's the
opposite?
I mean I
stick to the same answer I gave you last
week. You get long, buckle your seatbelt
and hang on for the ride.
We'll know when we start to get to that
point where the system starts to
rebalance, but I want to emphasize don't
underestimate the type of volatility. If
you take European gas in 2022, we saw
Russia cut it. And by the way, the
market ignored it in June of 2022. By
August and September you were at 3, 400
dollars a barrel. Do you know where
prices were in December of that year
after you destroyed so much demand? They
went negative.
So I'm not going to say oil's going
negative, but what I'm trying to tell
you is it's going to be a really bumpy
ride. You've seen no evidence of demand
destruction that rebalances market yet.
So we haven't even really started the
rebalancing process yet. So the upside
here, I would argue is substantial.
Again, we want to be long and I look at
the market. It's shorting energy stocks
and getting long everything else that is
short energy. I think you're picking up
pennies in front of the steamroller
right now. Jeff, we buckled up. That's
why you have we have you on again this
week. Can you give us a range of how
high those prices could go? I don't you
know, I know you don't want to give us
an exact definition of where you think
Brent oil is going to hit, but give us a
range of when you say get long, I mean
how long are we talking? I mean but look
at Oman's already traded at $173
a barrel. Jet fuel in Rotterdam is $220
a barrel. In Singapore it was $230 a
barrel.
And we haven't started the rebalancing
process. All we have seen is what
happened places like Thailand and China
hit export bans that then creates ripple
on effects and shortages. Then you have
the hoarding that begins to take place.
You're $8 a gallon gasoline in Los
Angeles right now. So you know, the
upside here, again, I don't want to
speculate on how high, but you've
already witnessed something like $173 in
the physical market. So that's my point
here. There's a massive disconnect
between the physical world and the paper
world and the paper world includes the
financial world. You know, I like to
point out in it was in January of 2020
when COVID hit. I remember I was looking
at the
what was going on in China. It was the
second largest economy in the world just
shut down. Stock market rallies, oil is
hanging in there, not selling off and
I'm going, guys, we got to get short
this thing. You can't hit the global
economy with a shock of that magnitude
and not expect bad things to happen. And
we have the exact mirror image of the
same similar size shock hitting the
world right now and the market on the
paper and financial side is not keying
off the signals that it's providing at
this point in time.
>> So Jeff, at some point it gets real for
the market and with COVID it was when
the northern Italian cities started to
shut down. There was a sense that this
was getting real, that it was spreading
beyond China, it was hitting Europe and
could hit the US as well. What makes
this get real? What closes the gap
between physical and paper markets?
I think it has to be
visual images of real shortages in the
United States and in Europe. Now the US
will be hard, particularly if they do
export controls on that. Europe will
likely be the first one to hit and I
think the implication here is the US
believes it's safe because of energy
dominance and this is the point I made
it last week. From an equity market
perspective, that equity market in the
United States is a global market. All of
those mag seven companies earn their
earnings in Europe and Asia and all over
the world. So when this energy crisis
begins to hit places like Europe, it's
going to impact the earnings of those
companies that sit inside the US because
the US equity market is not a US
domestic market. It's global. So it'll
feel the impact and I think that if the
Americans are going to feel it first on
the wealth impact before they'll ever
feel it in the at the income cash flow
level. The Europeans, unfortunately,
they're likely to feel it at both sides
relatively soon. Jeff, it's good to see
you. Thanks for making time for us
again. We'll catch up soon, no doubt.
Jeff Currie there of Kala. Few headlines
there of course. One, you cannot print
barrels and two, even at 100,
this is not pricing the shock that he
sees playing out.
>> Yeah, he sees it in the physical market
and he says that it's only going to get
worse until you get lines lining up to
get energy, that's going to be a
problem. He also said something about
agriculture and I think that this we
cannot overlook this. The idea that 40
to 50% of the world's urea, which is a
key ingredient fertilizer, is being
withdrawn from the market right at the
same time that you would have a planting
season. It's the reason why I think a
lot of people are watching with concern
the world's food supplies. Jeff Currie
is a breath of fresh air for the people
who continuously message me and that is
why I bring up Oman and Dubai grades
because they are 50, 60, 70 dollars
north of where the financial markets is
pricing in Brent crude. That is this
massive gap. Second point, he mentioned
unless the US does export controls. That
is something and I don't know what level
of
>> It's coming up, isn't it? I don't know
what level it is right now on the menu
for this White House, but it's certainly
on the menu.
>> Let's get an update on news elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohai has more. Hey Yohai. Hi John.
A top US counterterrorism official
resigning over the war in Iran. Joe Kent
saying he quotes cannot in good
conscience back the Trump
administration's war. In his resignation
[music] letter, Kent's writing, Iran
posed no imminent threat to our nation
and it is clear that we started this war
due to pressure from Israel and its
powerful American lobby.
Meanwhile, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang says
the company is firing up H200 chip
production for customers [music] in
China. The chipmaker has been working to
reestablish sales of its AI processors
in Beijing after the market was
virtually closed by US export
restrictions. Nvidia continuing to hold
off on including any China data center
revenue in its financial [music]
forecasts.
And Arizona is filing criminal charges
against Kalshi, [music] accusing the
prediction market exchange of operating
an illegal gambling business. Kalshi
>> [music]
>> is already facing legal challenges in
about a dozen states, but Arizona is
taking a step further becoming the first
to file criminal charges. A spokesperson
for Kalshi telling us here at Bloomberg
the company is subject to federal
[music]
jurisdiction. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohana, thank you. More
from Yohana in the next hour. Up next on
the program, waiting for the data.
The Fed is going to be on pause. They do
not want to preemptively react to either
inflation moving up or [music] growth
moving lower. And with policy being
close to neutral, they feel like they're
well positioned to essentially wait and
see the data. Up next, Brad Rogoff of
Barclays from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York, welcome to the
program. Equities just about positive on
the S&P 500 up by 0.3 on the S&P and on
the Nasdaq up by 0.5. Earlier on this
morning, about 20 minutes ago, 30
minutes ago, we got this from Iranian
state TV that the South Pars gas field
has [music] been attacked. That's an
offshore gas field in the Persian Gulf.
It's the only headline we've really got
to go on at the moment. Off the back of
that [music] you should see a move in
gas prices, gas futures picking up just
a touch.
>> a field they share with Qatar. It's a
massive field. And if attack is
confirmed, it would mark the first time
Iran's upstream oil and gas facilities
have been targeted in the war, which is
why you're going to see a little bit
more risk premium moved into not just
gas futures, but also potentially as
well Brent oil. We'll stay on top of
that story for you throughout this
morning. Heading into this a little bit
later, the Federal Reserve meeting and
developments this morning, waiting for
the data.
The Fed is going to be on pause. Why?
Because they do not like this type of
stagflationary environment, and they do
not want to preemptively react to either
inflation moving up or growth moving
lower. And with policy being close to
neutral, they feel like they're well
positioned to essentially wait and see
the data. They're going to be very data
reactive, [music] and they're going to
wait out to see how this plays out. So
here's the latest this morning. A Fed
rate decision due at 2:00 p.m. Eastern
time. Traders expecting the central bank
to leave rates unchanged as policy
makers weigh the economic impact of the
Iran war. Brad Rogoff of Barclays writes
the market now expects no Fed cuts in
26. We continue to expect two. Brad
joins us now for more. Brad, good
morning. How you doing? Good to see you,
sir. So let's go through the
expectations. Market's at none, Fed's at
one, you're at two. Yeah, well, we're
we're at two if you move into early next
year really as well, right? One this
year, one this year. We we changed that
call at the end of last year.
In the last year in the last week.
So we moved back from June to September
in terms of the first cut,
and then we went into early next year
for the second. You know, how do we get
there? I mean, look, obviously there's a
lot going on
>> [laughter]
>> as you guys have just been alluding to
over in the in the Middle East, and the
Fed's got to weigh both of of those
things, right? The inflationary impact
and the market and and certainly the
rates market so far is definitely
weighing the inflationary impact much
more than the growth impact. And you
know, if this comes to a close in some
way in the short term, then the growth
impact, you know, probably is not as
large, but if we see the oil prices that
you guys were just talking about with
someone, that's going to have an impact
on the consumer. There is going to be
concerned about growth. We're also
probably going to have a new Fed chair.
We're going to have a little different
complexion of the board. We think that
could get you there by September, not
June, which we had been predicting.
>> to oil first. So Jeff Currie of Carlyle
comes on. He's talking up much, much
higher prices. He's uncomfortable with
how this market is pricing this story.
Are you more comfortable?
I wasn't thinking some of the numbers
that he put out there, but but we had
been saying as soon as there was
activity that that the market felt too
low to us. We're getting closer to to
levels that that do make sense. Look, I
think if we're talking about the US
economy, I think there was also a good
point made whereby I don't know if we'll
go to export controls, right? But we are
an energy superpower, right? We produce
plenty of oil here, and the US does have
better flexibility. It should, you know,
should lead to the US holding up better
from an economic standpoint relative to
a lot of other places in the world.
>> Does it make you nervous that there
isn't fear right now, really, in
markets? The capital markets are still
completely open. Companies can sell debt
for the most part unless their industry
is challenged. And everyone's looking to
buy the dip, not exactly get out
screaming. Well, that's been the right
trade for a while now, Lisa, right?
[snorts]
So I didn't answer your question if it
makes me nervous. It does make me a
little bit bit nervous, right? But I
also understand that. And look, we're
we're still in you look at credit
spreads, right? To your point. We're
still in the bottom quartile, right?
That we've been in historically. But
investment grade spreads backing up from
what were historic tights by 20 basis
points, that's a pretty big move when
you're starting in the 70s, right? And
so
there's something coming through
markets. Credit markets have actually
underperformed their normal beta versus
equities. So we're probably supposed to
look a little bit towards equities if we
worry about more of our concern there.
Well, Howard Marks yesterday was talking
about how essentially he wouldn't be a
buyer of a 100-year debt from Google
because he doesn't understand why you
would want to be a fixed income investor
in some of these tech names when there's
limited upside and a lot of downside
given some of the changes ahead. Are you
seeing any pushback in financing the
capital plans of some of these
hyperscalers, which is the benchmark for
why people are so confident about the US
economy? Yeah, look, I think you could
say that about 100-year bonds of
probably any any company if we're being
if we're being honest.
But to answer your question,
pushback, a little bit in the sense of
the new issue concession that people are
demanding in
you know, IG credit markets where a lot
of this hyperscaler financing is
occurring, it's definitely larger than
we've seen. But can you still get huge
deals done like we just saw Amazon get
done? We had, you know, record issuance
week in in high grade last week. So
you know, yes, some pushback in that
people are demanding a little bit more
spread, a little bit more yield for it.
But you can still get it done.
Brad, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Brad Rogoff there of
Barclays. Capital markets still open.
Very much so, except for a couple
companies. And there was this one
company, a software company, that
focuses on making online polls, and it
was not able to raise more than $5
billion in the loan and bond market.
>> all the wrong things right now.
>> Well, I mean, arguably some of the
online polls that you get, you know, how
do you feel about this cloud? You are an
introvert. You know, I mean, it's a
question of whether you know,
potentially cloud could do that, too.
>> what they do? Do you play those games?
>> [music]
>> Is that what you do?
I don't want to talk about it, John.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm introverted.
>> some time on that. I spend lots of time.
That's how I prep for this show. And
then what do you see? Pictures and stuff
like that?
I see my mom. You know, we should talk
about this.
Let's not. Let's move on.
>> Coming up on the program, Peter Tchir of
Academy Securities, Steve Richardson of
Evercore, Aditi Baviskar of Bank of
America, and Kelly Kowalski of
MassMutual. [music]
The third hour up next.
There's downside risk around labor, but
then you also have to acknowledge that
there's some upside price risk. This oil
price shock is another headwind to the
labor market expansion. [music] The Fed
will have to increasingly acknowledge
the two-sided risk from this. For now,
the Fed is going to be cautious. The Fed
is going to be on pause. They do [music]
not want to preemptively react. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
[music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P elevated following
back-to-back gains [music] on the
benchmark. We're higher by another
quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. In the
commodity market, check out Brent. Still
north of 100, holding on to triple
digits, 104.30
up by 8/10 of 1% heading into the big
[music] event later on this afternoon.
Operation make it very boring for
Chairman Powell in that news conference
at 2:30 Eastern time.
>> It's going to be difficult for him to
make it boring, and not just because
we're hosting the Fed decides starting
at 1:30, tune in, but also because they
have to come out with their statement of
economic projections. And regardless of
how much credibility you can put into
that given the fact they were all just
throwing darts at a dartboard, people
are going to take that as a signal. What
is their reaction function collectively
to the idea of an oil price shock? Is it
to prolong keeping rates where they are,
or is it potentially keeping an open
mind even to whether it's [music] a rate
hike or a rate cut going forward?
>> Neda says it's a super super fluid
situation on the ground in the Middle
East right now. Moments ago a headline
[music] crossing about damage being done
to energy assets in the region. That
reporting coming out of Iran, and we're
looking for further verification from
elsewhere. Right. We want to know
exactly what kind of strike this was,
the damage on [music] this facility. One
is the South Pars natural gas field that
they share. This is a huge facility that
they share with Qatar. [music] Another
is a nearby oil and petrochemical
facility. So this would mark the first
time that Iran, in terms of upstream oil
and gas facilities, have actually been
targeted. The question is, who is
targeting [music] this energy
infrastructure? The president has
notably a number of times talked about
the fact they went after military
installations and facilities on Kharg
Island, but didn't touch the energy
infrastructure. So that's a big question
this morning.
>> This statement from the president as
[music] we speak just moments ago.
Remember for all those absolute fools
out there, Iran is considered by
everyone to be the number one state
sponsor of terror. We are rapidly
putting them out of business. Two things
can be true at the same time. The
Iranian regime has been reaping terror,
frankly, [music] across the region. And
a lot of the people who are being
targeted have been the leaders of direct
oppression on a lot of people, rank and
file citizens of Iran. That said, there
is a bigger question about the goals of
this conflict as well as the duration of
it. Those two things are coming into
conflict at the same time. So,
regardless of what the regime did or who
it represented, a question of what this
war accomplishes and what this
administration would like to see out of
it, those two things are what people are
trying [music] to grapple with.
>> Off the back of these headlines, gas
prices bouncing just a touch, crude
holding onto gains, Brent at 104 earlier
on. Jeff Currie of Carlyle about 30
minutes ago making the case that even at
100, this is not pricing [music] in the
risk he sees developing in the Middle
East.
>> You cannot print molecules. He thinks
this is an entire regime shift for the
energy complex and that the paper
market, what is going on in terms of
what you see on your Bloomberg terminal
across the screen, is not really what is
happening when it comes to the physical
barrels in the market and he looks to
places like the Oman and Dubai grades
and they are north of 50 to $70 a barrel
than you're actually seeing in futures
and that's what Asian countries are
taking [music] on right now, which why
he says this has a lot more to go in
terms of how high prices can get.
>> Equities struggling to hold onto gains,
positive here by about 0.2% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Peter Schiff of Academy as stocks record
back-to-back gains. Aditya Baveja of
Bank of America reacting to the latest
inflation data and Kelly Kowalski of
MassMutual counting down to today's Fed
decision. We begin this hour with stocks
higher as President Trump reiterates the
conflict with Iran will end soon. Peter
Schiff of Academy writing the following,
increasingly the patience with waiting
seems to be dissipating as the markets
are looking for results. Pete join us
now for more. Pete and Monic. Mornin'.
You are uniquely positioned as a firm to
talk about this. We often say they're
stacked with military experience over at
Academy. Can we talk about the facts on
the ground at the moment? Do you see the
US and Israel making progress? Are we
making progress? Yeah, I think we're
making progress. We went through a list
of all the things that we want to attack
and bomb and we've been going through
those I think successfully. Now I think
when we look at the Strait in
particular, the big difference there is
when we're talking about this at Academy
with a lot of our generals and admirals
is when
Iran's firing missiles at Israel various
places, right? They travel for a long
distance. There's half an hour, there's
an hour, there's time to scramble. The
Strait of Hormuz is 21 miles at its
widest, right? So, there's a ability if
they're launching from close to shore,
there's only minutes before that drone
hits and so I think that's the next wave
of this is kind of eradicating their
ability to target ships from close to
the coast, but that is going to be very
difficult. General Bellon she said one
thing, this is more about the Houthis.
It's kind of rude but I think it's very
true. She was talking about them, it's
hard to bomb someone in the Stone Age
when they already live in the Stone Age.
So, these are people who are prepared
for this sort of fighting, shoot, hide.
So, that's where it gets difficult and I
think that's why this is dragging on.
We're conditioned to buy in the equity
market. We being investors, Wall Street
market participants conditioned to buy
in equity market whenever it dips. We've
seen that repeatedly largely because
when things get tough, there is a belief
the president backs off and changes his
approach to things. Do you see how the
keys to the outcome of this? You know,
it does seem like we are winning but to
me there's this race, right? It's us
winning trying to make progress towards
some sort of regime change and at the
same time Iran's ability to keep oil
prices higher and to be honest, oil's
probably the third or fourth most
important thing that we talk about
lately. We're much more focused I think
on liquid natural gas. LNG is a problem
and I think when we look at this, the US
is somewhat, you know, comforted because
we have our own supply. China has their
stockpiles. I think this is becoming
very important with within a week for
Asia ex-China, you're starting to see,
you know, I love going on to NICAM and
searching force majeure. It's like kind
of a cool word but it's dangerous,
right? And you're seeing more and more
force majeure and again, one of our
other generals who spent a lot of time
actually ran BP Anglo South American oil
business, he was reminding our clients,
when you turn these sorts of facilities
off, it's a one to three weeks startup
process again. So, this is starting to
me, I think if we're still talking about
this next week, Asia's in trouble. This
headline from Axios crossing just
seconds ago getting some further details
on what's happening here. They're
reporting that Israel struck the largest
gas processing facility in Iran. Looking
for further details, the Israeli strike
was carried out with approval of the
United States. That's coming from Axios
just moments ago.
>> So, the second part of that headline is
I think what I find a little bit
confusing because this administration
definitely does not want to see an
energy shock, definitely wants to try to
make sure that consumers aren't the ones
vulnerable for what Trump would call an
excursion, this war in the Middle East.
So, it'd be interesting that the White
House gave it a basically green flag to
strike a huge gas processing facility
within Iran. Reporting from Axios P from
a senior Israeli official, the Israeli
Air Force struck the largest natural gas
processing facility in Iran located in
the southwest of the country. The strike
was carried out in coordination and with
the approval of the United States. So,
when we've been
Trump obviously likes maximum leverage,
right? And the problem I think we're
running into right now is maximum
leverage requires, you know, hitting
their oil fields, hitting that, whether
it's on Cargo Island or elsewhere and
kind of reducing their ability to
generate income. The flip side of that
is everything that we do that puts
maximum pressure on them probably puts
maximum pressure on us in terms of
disrupting oil. So, I think this is a
real delicate, you know, balance. I
don't know which way it swings out in
the end.
At the same time people are saying the
US is less sensitive to higher oil
prices and ultimately this is a problem
for Europe, not necessarily the United
States. Increasingly the US and assets
here are considered havens once again.
How far does that go? I mean, do you
think that the market is being overly
complacent about how much the US economy
could get hit? Yeah, so one thing I do
want to say is I think we should maybe
temporarily suspend the Jones Act and
that's the act that forces US ships to
go from US ports and that's one reason
we ship a lot of gasoline out of the
south and we import a lot into the
north. So, I think we could do some
things like that. Having said that, I
think this is really coming down to the
supply chain. It's going to be
fertilizer, it's going to be plastics,
the
things, the polyethylene, benzene,
right? As you start seeing those slow
down especially in China, it or Asia
becomes our problem, right? What happens
when someone who's trying to make a
phone for example in India can't make it
because some component's not being
produced in the area because of the
plastic. So, global supply chains, I
think that's one thing we learned so
much from COVID, right? They're very
intricate, they're very fragile in many
ways and I always go back to what the
CEO of Whirlpool said, a washing machine
that's 99% done is not done and I think
that's the growing risk here. It's
little disruption to the supply chain
that no one would think about and all of
a sudden we have problems down the road.
I think we're not there yet but again,
I'm increasingly nervous the market's
not pricing this in and a week we're
going to get this, "Ooh, shoot, we are
in deep trouble and we're 5% down."
Well, so listening to Jeff Currie and
listening to yourself, I'm ready to sell
everything and go to cash and ultimately
hide in bed and all at the same time
Delta and American Airlines come out and
they talk about consumers are spending
so much that it offsets the losses that
are felt in higher costs from some of
these supply chain disruptions. How far
do these disruptions have to go before
the momentum in the US consumer isn't
enough anymore to stave off a true
downturn? So, I think on this side of
the equation, it has to start disrupting
our actually good supply chain. So, you
have to actually see final goods having
problems. So, it's not just the oil and
gasoline, it's going to be plastics,
it's going to be shortages of something
where people are like, "Ooh, wow,
so-and-so's not going to make their
quarter because they're not getting
their goods finished." Again, we're not
seeing that yet. I think that comes down
the road. The set flip side of this is
what's happening in jobs. We're already,
you know, because of this attack no
one's talking about the worst job report
we've had in a long time, NFP, right?
So, there's weakness there. You're
seeing I think a credit pullback and I'm
fairly comfortable where credit spreads
are right now but I think credit's
getting tighter, right? Credit is an
integral part of keeping this economy
rolling. So, if you start seeing
companies not get access to credit, you
get a slow down there. I think
individuals are seeing some of that
again as well where
you know, we've been talking about this
for a little while but the working poor,
there seem to be an increasing number of
people who have jobs and are still
struggling to make ends meet and that's
a very unique situation. We've never
really had a recession kind of caused by
that. So, I think these things are all
adding together and if I'm the Fed, I'm
going to try and be more dovish. I don't
think they will be but I think there's
risks from all sorts of things that are
hitting us right now. Peter, you
mentioned the Jones Act. That waiver is
the first lever for the administration
to pull and we have reporting that
that's coming within days. What else do
you think they're going to do because I
keep hearing that there is minimum is a
discussion about an export ban when it
comes to US fossils and fuel products to
the rest of the world?
>> Well, to some extent I think you almost
need the Jones Act to be repealed
temporarily to do that, right? Because
otherwise you can't take the oil and
gasoline that we have sitting in the
southern ports and bring them to the
northeast. So, I I think that's a step
in that. Yeah, I I think this is again,
I'm going to go back to what we've been
discussing now for a year, you know, I
try and mention every second time I'm on
pro sec or production for security.
This is just been a giant wake-up call
that everyone has to produce more of
their own stuff and I think anything
that's integral, if it's electricity
production right now is one of the most
important things. Probably always has
been. Every country has to be re-looking
at where they're generating their
electricity, how they're doing it and
making sure they're less dependent.
Again, I think the president was in
Scotland the other day. I don't always
agree with everything the president says
but he kind of gave them a lot of grief
for not using their own oil in the North
Sea. Like, yeah, why aren't you doing
that? Pete, what happens to states like
California that are highly dependent on
Asian imports? I think this is again,
you're going to see even within the US
some states do much better than others.
Again, those who are adopting this,
those who are really willing to do this
small refining, that's they're going to
see the shift, right? And they're going
to pay a price for that. So, again, I
think everything has a cost right now
and regulatory environments went one way
and now you're seeing kind of the
problems that are caused by these
bottlenecks. Pete, so it's good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Peter
Schiff there of Academy. This from Axios
just moments ago just to recap the news
for you. From a senior Israeli official,
they're reporting the Israeli Air Force
struck the largest natural gas
processing facility in Iran located in
the southwest of the country. The strike
carried out in coordination with and
with the approval of the United States.
Now, limited information from the US and
Israeli side on the record at this
point. I think we need that additional
clarity to figure out whether we just
opened up a new front in this war. And
also, if that means a new front is
opened up, what comes next? Does this
mean the president is willing to go on
Kharg Island and really take over the
energy facilities there, which means the
regime is completely cut off for the
lifeblood of their economy?
>> Makes you wonder where this is going
next, Brema. Yeah, and whether they're
going after the cash flow into Iran.
This particular facility is really key
and critical to Iran's gas exports. It
also provides a lot of the domestic gas
usage. So, a question of winning the
hearts and minds of Iranians, as well as
attacking some of the financial
resources of the Iranian leadership.
>> See H is struggling to hold on to gains
here in the equity market just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. With an update
on stories elsewhere this morning,
including an update on that, your
Bloomberg Brief with Yahaira. Hey,
Yahaira. Exactly, John. [music] Israel
striking the largest gas processing
facility in Iran, Axios reporting.
Israel carried out the attack in the
southwest of the country with the
approval of the US. It marks the first
time Iran's upstream oil and gas
facilities have been targeted [music]
so far in the war.
Uh meanwhile, President Trump confirming
his planned summit with Chinese leader
Xi Jinping has been postponed as the
Iran war stretches on. Trump saying his
visit to Beijing should happen in about
[music] 5 weeks without specifying an
exact date. The president going on to
say he believes the US-China
relationship remains [music] in good
standing.
And in sports, Venezuela is the winner
of the 2026 World Baseball Classic after
a 3-2 win over Team USA. It marks
Venezuela's first-ever [music]
tournament championship. And for Team
USA, it's the second straight runner-up
finish. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John. Hey, Yahaira, thank you. More from
Yahaira later this hour. Up next on the
program, the Morning Call's, plus we'll
catch up with Steve Richardson of
Evercore with US oil majors hovering
near record highs. That conversation up
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
We're dealing with an enormous supply
shock. So, I think you had $100 a
barrel, um this thing's mispriced. Get
long, buckle your seatbelt, and hang on
for the ride.
We'll know when we start to get to that
point where the system starts to
rebalancing, but I want to emphasize
don't underestimate the type of
volatility. It's going to be a really
bumpy ride.
It's a roller coaster I don't want to
get on with Jeff Currie of Carlyle on
the program a little bit earlier. The
president just moments ago on social
media asking when too late Jay Powell's
going to cut interest rates. Based on
the headlines coming out of the Middle
East, not anytime soon. This is the
latest from Axios. They're reporting the
following. If you're just tuning in,
welcome to the program. An important
development in the last 40 minutes or
so. According to a senior Israeli
official from Axios, the Israeli Air
Force struck the largest natural gas
processing facility in Iran, located in
the southwest [music]
of the country. The strike was carried
out in coordination with and with the
approval of the United States. As we get
more information [music] on those
strikes, equities just pulling back from
session highs and now just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. Likewise on
the Nasdaq, turning lower on the
Russell. In the commodity market, Brent
crude elevated, reclaiming [music] 105,
Lisa, on Brent this morning.
>> Yeah, a real question here about Brent,
about WTI, but also liquefied natural
gas. And over in Europe, you are seeing
those futures rise on this as this was
the biggest exporter of Iranian natural
gas. It did share this field with Qatar.
And it goes to the question of what
point do you get something more than
just storage facilities that are too
full,
>> [music]
>> storage
the actual production lines that have to
be restarted, but then the extra layer
of production facilities destroyed,
production facilities rendered not in
use anymore. And that I think is what's
getting a lot of people concerned.
>> 105 Brent says to me the market is
starting to wake up that actually less
energy will be coming out of the Gulf,
coming out of the Strait of Hormuz
anytime soon. When energy facilities
actually start getting hit, now you have
to add in a another risk premium. And
there [music] is the USS Tripoli on its
way to the Gulf. This is an amphibious
assault ship. Those men could
potentially be used to take over Kharg
Island. Not saying they are, but now you
can start to see if they're willing to
hit energy facilities, potentially this
could [music] come next.
>> You wonder what the next steps are. So,
gas prices in Europe, European gas
prices starting to climb higher as you
get bounce in energy, you get that pull
back in stocks. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, Citi raising its price target on
California Resources to 67, calling it a
quote prime beneficiary of surging crude
prices. Your second call from Truist,
raising its price target on Nvidia to
287, saying a growing backlog of demand
suggests further upside. And your third
and final call from TD Cowen, [music]
raising its price target on United
Airlines to 140, saying higher fares
will offset the spike in fuel prices.
That name up again this morning by 1/3
of 1%. Let's stick with energy. Oil
majors hitting all-time highs as crude
hovers near triple digits. Steve
Richardson of Evercore writing, "We
continue to believe the market is
underestimating [music] the risk to
global economic growth from this event,
and that this constitutes a regime
change for energy equities." Steve
[music] joins us now for more. Steve,
good morning. Morning. Good to see you.
What's your reaction to those headlines
we just read out coming out of the
Middle East? Well, as you noted, it's
clearly a change, right?
The the question's going to be for the
market is how much of this is supporting
domestic infrastructure, domestic power
generation, which will start to put
pressure on the regime,
versus, you know, what we see as kind of
an intractable situation with Hormuz
that the market is is is waking up to.
The market's only waking up to this now.
Why is that?
Well, I think energy people have been
staring at the screen for the last
couple of days a little bit dumbfounded
by that, to be frank, right? I mean,
that that's been the tenor of our calls,
right?
And I think that uh you know, we we see
this dislocation between the physical
and the paper market.
Um we see and I think it drives a
certain complacency. As you mentioned,
the you know, the major oils are on
their highs already.
Um and so people, you know, struggle
with what am I doing from here? Um I
think a little bit. But I think that
this regime change is really important.
You got to remember that we've kind of
asked the US producers to kind of slow
production pretty ratably for the last
three or four years.
Um and this does, you know, positive a
significant change here. If the US is
supposed going to potentially do waiver
the Jones Act, export controls even,
what does that mean in terms of what the
price could be in the United States
versus the rest of the world? Or is
there no way from ring-fencing America?
It it's a sugar high, right? It's a it's
a short-term band-aid. Um it could bring
down Certainly you could bring down
product prices in parts of the country,
and that's, you know, obviously
politically expedient. But, you know,
the
one we're speculating.
Um we don't know. We could definitely
can tell you that investors are
concerned about this um and what it
means. The question is do you do crude
and products? There's a precedent for
crude.
Um products are really what you need.
Um and it would have ripple effects
through Latin America, right? Where we
we export most of our product. Um so, I
think it's, you know, it's something
that investors are asking about, but I
do think it's one of those things that
would have a short-term It's a global
market. You're not going to be able to
fix this in any sustainable way. But
could you, you know, could you do
something for 30 or 45 days that would
take the pressure off domestically?
Sure.
This market has been incredibly
contradictory in a whole host of ways
since the war has started in terms of
how it's responded. In part, the
response by oil major stocks, equities,
they're up 4% since the end of February,
even though arguably they could benefit
dramatically and it could be a regime
change. Can you explain why the
underperformance of some other
aspects of even equity markets?
I mean, I think
so, the couple of things, right? I mean,
I think that if you looked at the stocks
year-to-date, one of the things that
we'd point out is that it was really
index run, right? We had this SAS
meltdown, and you had capital almost
moving one-to-one into energy if you
look at at at the indexes. And then if
you run those indexes, it was relatively
indiscriminate that buying, largest to
smallest within those indexes. I think
now you're getting some differentiation.
The question is is as this shows some
duration, we see people moving a little
bit down cap towards the producers, a
little bit into oil services, which has
been an unloved area of the of the
sub-index. You got to remember we're
still 4% of the S&P. Energy is.
Um that still also seems unsustainable
in this regime change that we're talking
about.
>> I guess it matters also how long it
lasts so that some of these oil majors
can make plans to bring rigs back
online. A number of rigs have not been
online because of how low energy prices
were heading into this. I just wonder
what sort of the duration of this
conflict What does it have to be before
this the the the Mike Wirths of the
world come out and say, "All right, we
got to ramp it up. We got to start
producing more." Right. I do think
that's the that's the dominant logic in
the market is this idea that you sell
geopolitical risk, right? You you sell
the peak and because things start to
normalize and we go back to normal. The
question here is is what have we
destroyed in terms of supply chains?
What has been exposed as being an
untenable risk, certainly for Asian
economies? I do think I think the US
producers will need to see oil make a
higher low if that makes sense and some
sustainably sustainability. I do think
the back of the curve holding in in the
upper 70s or the 80s is an interesting
signal. Think about it, US producers,
smaller producers can go and hedge that
today and drill into that and make
really interesting returns. So, I think
it will take a while and it'll take
investors a little while to to kind of
accept this, too. So, we wouldn't be
surprised if we saw the first inklings
of this late, you know, in the within
the next couple of months. Certainly, a
lot of investors will be asking about
it. I do think as the time you get into
the summer, we'll start to see the US
rig count move up. And I think that'll
be the sign that we're going to start,
you know, growing a little bit in the US
again.
>> Steve, forgive me. I've only got 40
seconds. So, it's an important question,
though.
How we value assets in different places,
how is that going to change now? That's
a core piece of the work you're doing at
the moment. Right. Great question. I
mean, I think the the the the simple
question is is if we are in a more
inflationary environment and a higher
risk environment, it's back to these
tangible assets that the market has been
very skeptical of what terminal value,
particularly in oil, has been for a long
time. And I think this this experience
is going to highlight the durability and
the value of a lot of a lot of fixed
assets of this nature. Steve, just got
to say. Thanks for being here. Reacting
in real time to some of the news coming
out of the Middle East right now. Steve
Richardson there of Evercore. Coming up
on the program, we'll catch up with
Aditya Bahl of Bank of America reacting
to breaking inflation data and another
read on the labor market coming up
tomorrow. [music]
Going into a big Fed meeting later on
this afternoon where Chairman Powell
will do his best to avoid making [music]
any headlines whatsoever. So, tune in
for the decision at 2:00 p.m. and then
tune in for that at 2:30 Eastern time.
Reacting to headlines out of the Middle
East, the possibility, the potential of
a new front in this war, hits
>> [music]
>> to energy assets. That conversation up
next.
Inflation data just moments away. We'll
get to that in a moment. Mike McKee's
going to go through the details for you.
I want to start with the price action.
Equities were positive. They rolled
[music] over just about unchanged on the
S&P 500. Crude getting a lift just
moments ago. Check out Brent. Check out
WTI. Brent crude looks like this so far
this morning. Approaching 106 at 105.80
up by 2.3% and yields at the front end
of the curve turn higher as well. At the
very front end, twos at the moment
around 370. [music]
The headlines coming out of Axios that a
senior Israeli official has indicated
the Israeli Air Force struck the largest
natural gas processing facility in Iran,
located in the southwest of the country.
The strike carried out in coordination
with [music]
and with the approval of the United
States. Those headlines driving markets
in the last hour. Because now everyone
realizes that, okay, energy
infrastructure is going to be a
potential target for the Israelis, which
have been going after top brass of the
regime, and the administration, which
mostly has focused on military assets
and facilities. So, right now, what you
have is several phases of the South Pars
gas field hit by these projectiles, and
they were taken offline to prevent
fires. [music]
So, this is going to have not just
supply chain effects in the future, but
also questions are remaining. What is
going to be next in terms of the
willingness for this administration and
the Israelis to hit?
>> Gas futures turned it higher off the
back of those headlines as well as we
get PPI. And Mike McKee, PPI coming in a
little bit hotter than expected.
Well, actually a lot hotter than
expected, John. And as they say in the
space biz, Houston, we have a problem.
PPI comes in up 7/10 of a percent on a
headline basis, which puts the headline
number at 3.4%
up from 2.9% in January. These are
February numbers. The core comes in
ex-food and energy up half a percent.
That's a down a little bit from last
month's 8/10, but it moves the headline
core ex-food and energy up to 3.9%.
Take out trade services, and you've got
a move up also of half a percent, and
that puts that number at 3 and 1/2% on a
year-over-year basis. The composition of
the numbers is not good either on a
for prices for final demand goods
increased 1.1%. Prices for final demand
services up half a percent. So, a lot of
inflationary numbers in the February PPI
report. And what's important is this, of
course, feeds into the PCE numbers that
the Fed cares about. We got a light CPI
last week, but the categories that feed
into the PCE were high, and I would
imagine that that is the same story here
in the PPI. And we're maybe moving up
from the 3.1% core PCE number we saw in
January to a much higher number in
February. And all of this before the war
started. Mike McKee, that's just
February. March is going to be ugly
based on some of these moves we're
seeing in the commodity market. Mike
breaking it down for us. Mike, thank
you. Futures turning lower then. We're
down by 2/10 of 1% on the S&P. Yields
started to bounce at the front end of
the curve going into this print. Bounce
even higher now up by three basis points
north of 370 on twos. That's the upper
end of the range over the past few
weeks. We did get around 375, but these
levels are around the highest levels
we've seen since last summer, which was
going into a rate cutting cycle from the
Federal Reserve. In the bond market
then, yields up across the curve, but
particularly at the front end. In the
commodity market, not helping things.
106 on Brent. Reclaiming a 106 handle
just moments ago. Higher by 2.6%. The
headlines of the last hour, Lisa,
uncomfortable for this Federal Reserve
meeting later this afternoon. Adding
another element, another wrinkle to the
energy shock that we're facing given the
fact that now we're having facilities
being directly attacked. Taking a step
back, it is difficult for this Federal
Reserve to say that they are looking
through the oil price shock when the
benchmark core PCE and now PPI are
coming in on an upward trajectory where
they're inflecting higher. So, it is
difficult to look through it when the
underlying inflationary impulse running
into this was already well beyond their
2% target. And that is going to be a
very difficult message for them to
really deliver later today.
>> We'll get back to Mike and get you some
details in just a moment on the
underlying numbers. Aditya Bahl joins us
now. The head of US economics at Bank of
America. Aditya, good to see you. Good
morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Your reaction to those numbers, how
uncomfortable is that for this Federal
Reserve? So, when it comes to the PPI,
what markets focus on is the components
that read through to PCE, which can
sometimes be quite different from the
headline figures.
Still,
Feb CPI after that, market said, okay,
PCE is going to be somewhere core PCE is
going to be somewhere between 40 and 45
basis points. So, even if we land a
little bit lower than that in the
refined estimate after PPI, it still, as
Lisa said, a very elevated print. The
last 3 months, Dec, Jan, Feb, you're
probably going to annualize around 4 and
1/2% on the core PCE, maybe higher.
That's ugly. That's ugly. You can
explain some of it away with residual
seasonality, idiosyncratic factors, but
it's still way too high for the Fed. And
as you said, it's before the energy
shock in March.
>> Now, they've got to forecast what this
is going to look like in months to come.
As that inflation forecast comes out,
most people assume it might a little bit
later on this afternoon, what happens to
the median dot?
The inflation forecast almost has to go
up. I think the median dot, it's
probably a bit too early for it to move
just because
there's 9 months left in the year. We
know that stagflationary shocks pose
very, very bimodal risks to the economy.
So, near-term risk to inflation, but we
understand that the labor market doesn't
look so great either. If you think back
to January, Powell told us
the tension between the two mandates is
decreasing. Since then, we've gotten
this ugly inflation data and at the same
time a weak Feb jobs report. And now yet
another stagflationary shock,
potentially a large one, from energy.
So, I think their motto for the March
meeting should be one battle after
another. What's the signal you're
sending if you revise your inflation
outlook higher and you leave the median
dot unchanged?
I think the signal that you're sending
is that this is a supply shock.
So, one thing they could do, for
example, is raise their unemployment
rate forecast. We don't expect them to,
but you what you're saying is this is a
supply shock. We can look through some
of it because we're also concerned about
downside risks to growth and to, more
importantly, the labor market. Also,
just wait and see. I think that's going
to be the message from Powell, as you
were saying earlier, he's going to try
and make this as boring as possible, and
part of that is not moving the dots.
>> Well, the data is not making this
boring, Pramod. PPI coming in hotter
than expected. To Aditya's point, the
labor market report came in much, much
softer than expected. And in between,
we've got a war in the Middle East,
which is raging. The headlines are not
encouraging this morning, and crude's
elevated around 106 on Brent. This is a
terrible situation for a central bank.
They're dealing with stagflation.
They're dealing with a shock that is
well out of their control, and it raises
this issue of do they signal an
appreciation for past history, which is
stagflationary trends can turn into a
real downtrend for growth and eventually
down the line for inflation. Do they
balance out some of the hawkish talk
with some of the disinflationary
ramifications of higher energy prices?
>> Let's get back out to Mike McKee. Mike,
I want to come back to you, sir. What
are you seeing? What are you reading
between the lines at the moment? Where
is this higher move, this move higher,
coming from?
Well, largely from goods prices up by
the most since August of 2023.
Prices for final demand goods up 1.1%
largely due to food prices rising. They
were up 4 2.4%
led by a 48.9%
jump in prices for fresh and dried
vegetables. Now, there may be some
tariff impact in there.
But we also see in the goods prices a
tariff drop for things like apparel and
footwear.
So,
there's there's a little bit of a cross
purpose there. We don't know what's
going to happen once the IEPA tariffs
now are gone. But in terms of services,
that's where the Fed is going to be
concerned. They've been expecting that
to start dropping, particularly because
in the CPI, the housing numbers have
been slowing. But in this case, 5.7%
jump in services for travel
accommodation. And that's the kind of
stuff that does feed into the PCE. Also,
brokerages and dealers
on Wall Street. Those prices are up and
that also feeds into the PCE. So, we are
seeing some problem areas for the Fed
going forward and it is
if you want to look at it this way, what
would the Fed do if there weren't a war
on? Right now, when you see these kind
of prices,
they might be considering at least
mentioning the idea that rate increases
could be down the road. Mike McKee,
thank you, sir. Mike McKee breaking down
the inflation data.
Your response to that? What would the
Fed be doing if there wasn't a war right
now?
If there wasn't a war right now, I still
think they would be on hold. We didn't
see a strong reason for them to cut at
least in March or April just based on
the underlying activity data having
pretty solid momentum, fiscal stimulus
kicking in, tariffs going down, and
inflation still being somewhat sticky as
we discussed even before the war. So,
the outlook potentially changes in June
because then we'll have different
leadership at the Fed, but until then,
for this meeting and the next one, we
feel pretty confident that with or
without the war, they were not going to
cut. If they signal cutting rates later
this year, do you think that that could
send a real sell-off in the long end of
the yield curve given the fact that it
might suggest that this Fed is
disproportionately dovish in the face of
not just an oil price shock, but the
underlying inflation currently in the
economy? To be entirely honest, I think
the market already understands that this
Fed does tend to lean dovish, that a
majority of voters on the FOMC right now
are probably of the view that neutral
rates are closer to three than three and
a half percent. So, rates they think
eventually do need to come down, and I
honestly don't think markets paid that
much attention to the dots as early as
March. You know,
I like to benchmark to the extreme. It
is not a good strategy in markets, but
if one were to benchmark to the extreme,
they start to look at the setup of
supply disruptions and oil price shock,
and then already an economy in flux with
heated inflation percolating up, you'd
start to hearken back to the 1970s, and
you'd say, this does have some of the
elements of what we saw back then.
What's your pushback to that? The big
difference between now and the 1970s is
that the US is energy independent. We're
a net exporter of energy, and the
economy has also become a lot more
energy efficient. So, the share of
energy goods and services, not just gas,
but utilities and so on, in total
consumer spending is much, much smaller
than it was in the 70s. So, if you look
at the direct pass-through of oil prices
to energy to headline inflation, it's
actually quite small. The concern here
is second-round effects. There's two
ways in which that works out. One would
be broader supply disruptions that you
were talking about earlier. How will
those affect core inflation? And the
other will be what happens to the labor
market. Do wages start to go up? That I
think would be the other concern for the
Fed. If not, then I think you can look
through the inflation impact and focus
more on the downside risk to growth.
Aditya, you're right. We're number one
in crude, we're number one in a number
of products, we're number one in natural
liquefied gas, but it is traded on a
global market. So, prices continuously
are going to be elevated, and we're
seeing that already in gasoline and
diesel prices. So, isn't I know it's a
little bit different than the 70s in
terms of the complex and the makeup of
where the physical products are, but
this is going to have still cascading
effects. Sure. So, the difference is
that the headwind to consumers, that's
still there, but one, that headwind is
smaller because consumers spend a
smaller share of their wallet on energy
goods and services, and secondly, that
headwind is somewhat offset at least
partially by a tailwind for producers,
windfall profits from higher prices.
Aditya, good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Aditya Balivada of Bank of America. In
the last hour, the headlines have not
been kind to risk assets, that's for
sure. Headlines about strikes on energy
assets in the Middle East, and then a
much hotter than expected read on PPI as
well. This is what it's done to
financial markets. Equity futures were
positive, and now they're slightly
negative on the S&P to unchange,
somewhere between the two. In the bond
market at the front end of the yield
curve, yields are somewhat elevated. On
a two-year bond yield, they were
slightly lower, now higher by three
basis points at 370. Going into this
Fed, we've got energy prices bouncing
from Brent around 106, gas prices
inflicting higher as well. It's all
going to make it a lot more difficult
for this Federal Reserve to take a
dovish stance on any of this. I'm
looking right now at Fed funds futures,
and now we don't even have a full rate
cut getting priced into
the market by the end of this year. How
exactly do you lower rates when faced
with a benchmark inflation rate that is
hotter than expected as well as an oil
price shock? Right now, this is the
concern. If you get a Fed that pushes
back, does that start to
inject some risk into credit markets,
and start to force the credit
transmission to pressure growth even
lower? And that I think is the concern
of a lot of people in risk markets.
>> I've got is this is February data. Wait
for March.
>> Exactly. This predates the big move
we've had in crude and energy prices
more broadly. Amara, the headlines keep
coming. Right. Israel's now saying that
they are confirming to a source
confirming to our colleagues that they
carried out the strike in Iran's South
Pars gas field. Iran is saying they're
going to retaliate against the attack on
energy infrastructure. You know, the
president, when he talks about Iranian
natural gas, when he talks about oil, he
says Kharg Island is the crown jewel.
Well, South Pars isn't that far in terms
of a crown jewel. This is the largest
gas field in the world, and when it
comes to domestic consumption in Iran,
it accounts for 70% of their domestic
concerns in Iran when it comes to
natural gas. So, this is a huge blow to
the regime, but also you see that the
energy markets are picking up the
concern. Brent up 106, WTI the last time
the Fed met that morning, WTI 62. This
morning, just short of 97. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yohai
has more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John.
Israel striking the largest gas
processing facility in in Iran, Axios
reporting, and as we just confirmed,
Israel carried out the attack in the
southwest [music] of the country with
the approval of the US. It marks the
first time Iran's upstream oil and gas
facilities [music] have been targeted so
far in the war. Brent crude up 3.3%.
The US Navy's most advanced aircraft
carrier is retreating from the Middle
East after a fire broke out in its
laundry room. The incidents left at
least two of the USS Gerald Gerald R.
Ford's crew members with
non-life-threatening injuries. [music]
The ship is heading to Greece for
repairs, leaving only one carrier to
support
>> [music]
>> US forces in the waters around around
Iran.
And Japan PM Sanae Takaichi warning
she's facing a quote extremely difficult
meeting with President Donald Trump
tomorrow. Her comments coming after
President Trump criticized Japan for
rebuffing his demand for warships to
help [music] secure the Strait of
Hormuz. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yohai, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead, plus we'll catch up with
Kelly O'Rourke of MassMutual counting
down to today's Fed decision. Yohai is
going to have your morning movers in
just a moment. Shares of Macy's rising
after earnings despite caution from
geopolitics. [music] The geopolitics
driving this market big time.
You know what I wish the Fed would do? I
wish they would put out a statement that
said, "Folks, there's just some things
that we can't solve. Not be hawkish or
dovish, but be honest and say, "Folks,
we just you know, this is a
this is a problem created by by
geopolitics. All we can do is leave the
rate right here and see how things
unfold." Ed, I'm with you. Cancel the
meeting. Hey, John. Danny, if you
haven't any research, just call it off.
Yeah, you could have been in here all
day.
>> conference, just let it go. I'm sure
that J. Powell agrees with you.
>> He'd probably love that, wouldn't he?
>> absolutely 100% do that if he could.
This Federal Reserve is in a very
uncomfortable spot right now, getting
squeezed by the data and the headlines.
PPI coming in hotter than expected about
20 minutes ago, and these headlines keep
building. Signs and headlines, evidence
of attacks on Iranian energy
infrastructure,
claims from Iran that they're vowing to
retaliate and target energy
infrastructure and energy assets
elsewhere. A strong suggestion coming
from the Iranian government that that
will happen. [music] And this from
Axios, which I think is really
important. Not just the damage to
Iranian infrastructure, but who did it,
and with cooperation with who?
Executed by the Israelis, carried out in
coordination with and with the approval
[music] of the United States. That is an
escalation in the Middle East. With the
approval of is really something because
this means potentially [music] other
Iranian facilities like Kharg Island,
which the president was very clear when
he speaks about it, was not going after
the energy facilities there, just the
military installations there.
Potentially, this is going to be next to
come.
>> [music]
>> And potentially, this is start of a new
phase of this war, and that is why
you're seeing gas futures higher, and
that is why you're seeing Brent crude
higher. Brent 107, WTI 97. Pair it with
what we're seeing in the data, PPI
coming in much hotter than expected.
You've got yields at the front end of
the curve higher by close to four basis
points now at 371, [music] and equities
declining on the S&P, now down by 0.5%.
All of that basically in the last hour.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, let's get some single names and
morning movers. Yohai has more. Hi,
Yohai. Hi, John. After a more than 500%
surge in its market debut, shares of
Swarm are up another 25% in the
premarket. This is the company
>> [music]
>> that makes the AI software that
coordinates drone swarms used in combat,
and with the Iran war front and center,
you can see how investors are leaning
into this theme of higher defense
spending. Uh moving on to Macy's who had
earnings up just earlier. Shares are up
6% off the highs, uh but it was a mixed
report, but investors obviously uh
leaning into the good parts of this
report. It was a beat on both [music]
comparable sales and profits in the last
quarter, but it struck a cautious
outlook on the year ahead calling it
prudence calling its outlook prudent
saying that macro and geopolitical risks
uh will weigh on spending. And it's been
the year of memory chip stocks with all
these names of Micron [music] and
Sandisk higher Western Digital now
turning negative uh ahead of a big test
later today. We do get Micron reporting
uh after the bell and with that stock
[music] up 60% year-to-date, it will be
all about whether it can deliver. John.
Yeah, Hadar, thank you. Appreciate it.
Let's get straight to it. Kelly Kowalski
of MassMutual joins us around the table.
Kelly, good to see you. Good to see you.
Your thoughts on what's happening with
this Fed. Investors were already coming
into the March meeting expecting a Fed
on hold and that hasn't changed post
Iran. If anything, there's less room for
disappointment. Are things getting
harder this morning?
I think so. Look, we're in the fog of
war. I think the Fed's in the fog of war
as well. You know, the last 2 days we've
seen seen markets trend, but we have to
continue to expect this. The headlines
are going to sort of drive short-term
moves. And I think looking to today's
Fed meeting, you know, at the beginning
at the end of last year, we had one cut
in the dots coming into this year. We
really don't expect that to change just
given how new everything is. And look,
this this crisis has been going on 2 and
1/2 now almost 3 weeks.
Um so, still very new and we we kind of
expect that sort of more balanced
approach from the Fed and not really
committing, you know, one way or the
other in terms of inflation versus the
labor market side of the mandate. What's
the argument against the Fed putting a
rate hike back on the table given the
fact that when you take a look at PPI
without stripping out food and energy,
it's at the highest level in about a
year. You're seeing a lot of different
inflationary metrics moving upward even
before this oil price shock.
It's the other side of the mandate,
right? There's there's the inflation
side and there's the labor market side
and the labor market is fairly weak. So,
I think they really need to preserve
that optionality even though we are
likely to see inflation prints, they're
not going to say it's temporary, but if
you look at the way markets have been,
you know, relatively resilient, markets
are viewing it as if it's going to be
temporary. But again, there's the risk
of that the demand destruction side,
which I think the Fed has to sort of
keep that uh on its mind. When do you
start recommending that people start
thinking about the possibility of
recession more than currently being
priced into risk assets? Well, look, we
came into this year, you know, data's
been okay. You know, we know the labor
market's been weak. PMIs have been
increasing. We've seen industrial
production picking up. It's again a
little bit premature for that, but the
longer this, you know, crisis war drags
out, the more we need to think about it,
right? There's there's the first order
effects of oil prices, but there are
sort of the second and third order
effects which build the the more
prolonged this is. Again, I don't think
that's priced in where there's
definitely a uh longer tail if we think
about it. The tails are fatter now. Um
but again, markets are really not
trading on that narrative. As Lisa
mentioned a few times in the last 24
hours, how much confidence can you take
from what we're hearing from the
airlines? The the business for the likes
of Delta and American has been pretty
decent and they're projecting it to
continue through the first quarter.
I think that speaks to the ongoing trend
we're seeing of sort of the K-shaped
economy, right? You're seeing a pull
forward in demand. We're all We're
expecting airline prices to airline
fares to go up. Um so, that gives us
some confidence that that, you know, the
upper 20% spends less than 2% of its
income on on fuel. You go to the the
bottom 20%, it's 6 to 7 times that. So,
you're going to see more pressure on
that lower end, but the question is can
this upper end with uh withstand this
these higher fuel prices?
Probably. This is going to squeeze a lot
of people. Kelly, it's good to see you.
Thank you. Thanks for being here. Kelly
Kowalski there of MassMutual. If you're
just joining us, what a couple of hours
on this program. This Fed is looking
increasingly constrained by the
headlines. Escalation in the Middle East
and going into the meeting, a much
hotter than expected PPI print. Coming
up later 2:00 p.m. Eastern time, [music]
your lineup for the surveillance special
looks like this. The Fed decides we'll
be catching up with Bob Michele [music]
of JP Morgan, Sebastien Galy of SocGen,
the former Fed Vice Chair Rich Clarida,
Torsten Slok of Apollo. We'll see you
later this afternoon from New York. This
was Bloomberg Surveillance.